SOC 430 Sociology of Globalization 4 credits
In the media, the term ¿globalization¿ has been used to characterize the
changes taking place in our world today, but this class will take a critical
look at the term globalization and the increasing influence it has on the
daily lives of people around the world. The course will examine how
the single-minded focus on the growth of profit has transformed the
world and affects the life circumstances of diverse populations. At the
conclusion of the course, the students will have a better understanding of
what has been called “globalization” and the forces that shape their lives.
Diverse Cultures: Purple
SOC 442 Criminology 4 credits
This course will cover theoretical perspectives on crime and their
assumptions, empirical research on crime, myths concerning crime,
and critiques of the criminal justice system. Students will apply a social
justice lens to the study of crime, the criminal justice system and the
unequal treatment of marginalized groups.
SOC 446 Race, Culture & Ethnicity 4 credits
The study of the principles and processes that account for the patterns
of relations among racial and ethnic groups in the context of the U.S.
society. It is designed to provide students with the essential background
that will allow them to analyze social structures based on different
dimensions such as class, gender, sexuality, and others. In any one
of these dimensions or at the cross-section of two or more we find
dominant (or majority) groups, which have better access to institutional
resources, and subordinate (or minority) groups, which are kept on the
margins and powerless. Diverse Cultures: Purple
Prerequisites: SOC 101
SOC 458 Sociological Theory 4 credits
Sociological Theory focuses on the application of theory to
understanding the causes of contemporary and historical social
problems. The course will introduce students to the connection between
theory and research, the contribution of theory to understanding
people’s personal experience, and the role of theory to explain social
struggle. Students will be exposed to some of the most notable social
theorists, including Marx, Weber, and Durkheim. Students will
also learn diverse theoretical perspectives from African-American,
Latina/Latino, Asian, and Indigenous social theorists, who have been
historically excluded.
SOC 460 Environmental Sociology 4 credits
The environment tends to be taken for granted, and it is often assumed
to be separate from society. People are an inseparable part of nature and
must interact with it if they are to survive. This course will encourage
students to contemplate their relationship with nature over time and
cross-culturally. The course will address a number of contemporary
concerns regarding the environment, such as food production, toxins
in the environment, natural resource extraction, and climate change.
We shall also contemplate solutions to the current environmental issues
facing society now and into the future. Diverse Cultures: Purple
SOC 461 Urban Sociology 4 credits
A survey of sociological theory and research on the ecology,
demography, and social organization of the urban community. Presents
a sociological interpretation of the development of urban society and
how the process of urbanization affects the basic societal institutions and
individual behavior. Focus on the development of global cities and the
global urban process and its determinants. Diverse Cultures: Purple
SOC 463 Social Stratification 4 credits
Within the pluralistic culture of the United States, sociology promotes
knowledge about multi-cultural groups. With rapid globalization,
sociology reveals how the sociological imagination extends beyond the
United States. The principle goal of the course is to help students to
develop a broader, more informed understanding of the past and present
social forces that have created and sustained a global society composed
of various class, racial and ethnic groups. The goal of this course is
for students to develop an appreciation of the ways in which various
theoretical perspectives lead to different understandings of the structures
and practices of group relations. Diverse Cultures: Purple
SOC 466 Program Planning and Evaluation 4 credits
Nonprofit, human services, and many other organizations develop
programs and interventions to help people, the environment, animals,
and the community. This course will explore the theoretical and practical
aspects of how to plan and evaluate these programs using effective,
evidence-based methods. Students will learn the basics of how to design
and evaluate a program and will also have an opportunity to practice
developing aspects of an actual program.
SOC 469 Survey Research 4 credits
Seminar and workshop on the principles and techniques of survey
research, including but not limited to understanding survey research
and designing questionnaires; students will work directly on a survey
research project and present project findings.
Prerequisite: SOC 301W or similar research methods course with
instructor permission.
SOC 472 Drugs and Society 4 credits
A sociological perspective to examine the history of drug use and abuse
in the United States. This may include a symbolic interactionist lens
regarding symbolic meanings of drugs in society. Multicultural issues in
drug abuse, international drug distribution networks, prevention efforts,
and legal issues will be discussed, as well as inequalities in how drug
laws are applied.
SOC 479 Sociological Ethnography 4 credits
Examination of ethnographic methodologies in sociology with emphasis
on analytic, performance, and autoethnography. Exploration of ethics in
ethnography, visual sociology, and first-hand experience in both crafting
and presenting ethnographic works.
SOC 480 Qualitative Methods 4 credits
Seminar and workshop on the principles and techniques of qualitative
research, including but not limited to interviews and participant
observation; students design and conduct original qualitative research
projects, write and present analyses. Prerequisite: SOC 301W or similar
research methods course with instructor permission.
SOC 482 Social Change 4 credits
Analysis of social forces that impact social change in the United States
and globally. Examines the interaction between structural and cultural
forces in the understanding of societal changes. Explores the global
economic impact and the implications for world-wide changes. Analysis
of the process of development and globalization and impacts on nations
and populations across the globe.
SOC 483 Contemporary Families 4 credits
Upper-division seminar focused on major theories and findings in
contemporary family sociology; emphasis on reading, interpreting, and
critically engaging with scholarly research on families, including dating
and cohabitation, marriage, divorce, and parenting.
352 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
SOC 484 Sociology of Religion 4 credits
Analysis of the structures, functions, and origins of religion, its
relationship to other social institutions, and its role in modern secular
society. Examines processes of individual religiosity and explores current
religious movements and trends. Explores world religions to enhance
greater cultural understanding.
SOC 485 Selected Topics 2-6 credits
Topics vary as announced in class schedule. May be retaken for credit
if topic varies.
SOC 490 Workshop 1-3 credits
Workshop topics vary as announced in class schedule. These workshops
will be based on skill-building and career connections for sociology
majors. May be retaken for credit.
SOC 492 Honors Reading 1 credit
For Honors students only.
SOC 493 Community Engaged Research 4 credits
This course will focus on ways that sociological concepts and research
skills can be applied in practice settings to address human concerns
and promote social justice. Students learn how sociological skills can
be used to identify, investigate, and implement solutions to problems
of social organization, social process, and social change. Through the
course of the semester students will engage in experiential and/or
project-based learning, and collaborate in identifying and executing
research in service of addressing a community problem or supporting a
community organization.
Prerequisites: SOC 301W or equivalent; Senior Standing.
SOC 497 Internship: Sociology 1-12 credits
The internship in sociology is designed to provide opportunity to
apply classroom learning, to practice and enhance skills, to experience
professional socialization, and to explore a career. It also serves as a
vehicle for the student to become more aware of personal strengths and
identify areas in which further growth is needed.
Prerequisites: Consent
SOC 499 Individual Study 1-6 credits
A maximum of six credits is applicable toward a single major in the
department; three credits toward a minor.
Prerequisites: Consent
Software Engineering
SE 300 Software Engineering Academy Project 3 credits
Students participate in their first hands-on industry software
development project. Every major element of the typical project lifecycle
will be experienced, based on live project features wherever possible.
This course prepares students for their first external work-based learning
experience in industry or on an industry project. Emphasis is placed on
diversity, equity, and inclusion for both technical and professional best
practices. Requires admission to program.
Prerequisites: Admission to the program.
SE 301 (Core): Introduction to Software Engineering 2 credits
Students are introduced to the main elements of software engineering
including requirements analysis, software design, software construction,
project management, and best practices for project management and
software systems engineering with an emphasis on diversity, equity,
and inclusion. This course prepares students for their first work-based
learning experiences in industry or on an industry project. Requires
admission to the program.
Prerequisites: Admission to the program.
SE 302 (Core): Introduction to Software Quality and Testing2 credits
Students are introduced to the main elements of software engineering
that deal with a) the influence of external bad actors, and b) finding and
fixing problems (“bugs”) in software. The course covers software testing,
software quality management, and software security. It prepares students
for their first work-based learning experiences in industry or on an
industry project, with an emphasis on best practices in diversity, equity,
and inclusion.
Prerequisites: Requires admission to the program.
SE 303 (Core): Introduction to Context-aware Software
Practices 2 credits
Students are introduced to the aspects of software engineering practice
that are heavily influenced by the technical, business, and social contexts
in which software systems operate. These include software sustainment,
software process and lifecycle concerns, best practices in software and
systems engineering, and software safety. This course prepares students
for their first work-based learning experiences in industry or on an
industry project, with an emphasis on diversity, equity, inclusion,
and belonging.
Prerequisites: Requires admission to the program.
SE 304 Preparation for Self-directed Study in Software
Engineering 2 credits
Principles of self-directed learning are used to scope and prepare for
future study of software engineering topics, especially as they are used
in industry. Principles include goal setting, time management, planning,
learning strategies, meta-cognition, self-regulation, and evaluation of
personal learning. A diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging lens is
applied throughout. Requires admission to the program.
Prerequisites: Admission to the program.
SE 311W SE Professionalism 1 2 credits
Students learn and develop the elements of professionalism while
working on software project teams in industry or on projects with
industry clients. Topics include leadership, metacognition, teamwork,
written and oral communication, ethics, diversity, equity, inclusion,
belonging, and professional and personal responsibility.
Prerequisites: SE 300
SE 312W SE Professionalism 1 2 credits
Students further learn and develop the elements of professionalism
while working on software project teams in industry or on projects with
industry clients. Topics include leadership, metacognition, teamwork,
written and oral communication, ethics, diversity, equity, inclusion,
belonging, and professional and personal responsibility.
Prerequisites: SE 311W, SE 391
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 353
SE 391 Software Engineering Project 1 4 credits
Students learn and practice the essential elements of software
engineering while working on a software project team in industry
or on a project with an industry client. Topics include software
requirements, design, construction, testing and quality, sustainment,
security, and systems engineering, and project management. A
diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging lens is applied to both
technical and professional course content. Course must be taken
concurrently with SE 311W.
Prerequisites: SE 300, SE 301, SE 303
Corequisites: SE 311W
SE 392 Software Engineering Project 2 4 credits
Further learning and practice of the main elements of software
engineering while working on software project teams in industry
or on projects with industry clients. Topics include software
requirements, design, construction, testing and quality, sustainment,
security, and systems engineering, and project management. A
diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging lens is applied to both
technical and professional course content. Course must be taken
concurrently with SE 312W.
Prerequisites: SE 311W, SE 391
Corequisites: SE 312W
SE 398 CPT: Co-Operative Experience 0 credits
Curricular Practical Training (CPT): Co-Operative Experience is a zerocredit full-time practical training experience for one summer and/or
one adjacent fall or spring term. Special rules apply to preserve full-time
student status. Please contact an advisor in your program for complete
information. Requires admission to the program; at least 60 total credits
of required courses for graduation earned; in good standing in the SE
program; instructor permission; co-op contract approved by program
leadership; other pre-requisites may also apply.
Prerequisites: CIS 223. Admission to the program; at least 60 total credits
of required courses for graduation earned; in good standing in the SE
program; instructor permission; co-op contract approved by program
leadership; other pre-requisites may also apply.
SE 401 Topics in Software Requirements 2 credits
Students learn the practices of software requirements work in depth
through hands-on experience. Topics include elicitation and analysis
techniques, best practices for gathering and documentation, and
methods for verification and validation. Emphasis on addressing
diversity, equity, and inclusion is applied throughout.
Prerequisites: SE 300, SE 301, SE 303
SE 402 Topics in Software Testing, Measurement, and Quality2 credits
Students learn the practices of software testing, measurement, and
quality in depth through hands-on work. This course covers the aspects
of software engineering that deal with a) the influence of external bad
actors, and b) finding and fixing problems (“bugs”) in software. Topics
include types of software testing, methods and mathematics for quality
control, and software process measurement and reporting. A diversity,
equity, and inclusion lens is applied throughout.
Prerequisites: SE 300 SE 301 SE 302, SE 303
SE 403 Topics in Software Architecture and Design 2 credits
Students learn software architecture, design, and related topics in depth
through hands-on practice. Best practices in design, organization,
documentation, communication, and preparation for manufacturing and
distribution of software are explored. A diversity, equity, and inclusion
lens is applied throughout.
Prerequisites: SE 300. SE 301, SE 303
SE 404 Topics in Software Process, Life Cycle, and
Sustainability 2 credits
Students learn best practices in software process, life cycle, and
sustainability management through hands-on experience. Product
and systems concerns are addressed in the context of real operational
environments for software systems. Topics include software
maintenance, project management, business ecosystems for software,
and contracts. A diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging lens is
applied throughout.
Prerequisites: SE 300, SE 301, SE 303
SE 411W SE Professionalism 3 2 credits
Students further learn and develop the elements of professionalism
while interacting regularly with clients, software developers, other
team members, managers, and administrators in an industry setting.
Further development and implementation of skills related to leadership,
metacognition, teamwork, written and oral communication, ethics,
diversity, equity, inclusion, belonging, and professional and personal
responsibility.
Prerequisites: SE 312W, SE 392
SE 412W SE Professionalism 4 2 credits
Students further learn and develop the elements of professionalism
while interacting regularly with clients, software developers, other
team members, managers, and administrators in an industry setting.
Further development and implementation of skills related to leadership,
metacognition, teamwork, written and oral communication, ethics, and
professional and personal responsibility in an industry context with
reflection on educational growth.
Prerequisites: SE 411W, SE 491
SE 480 Topics in Software and Systems Engineering 2 credits
Students learn the practice of software and systems engineering in
depth through hands-on work. Topics include APIs, robust construction
practices, cloud-based programming environments, large scale systems
management, multi-disciplinary team management, and software
safety. Emphasis on addressing diversity, equity, and inclusion is
applied throughout.
Prerequisites: SE 300, SE 301, SE 303
354 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
SE 491 Software Engineering Capstone 1 4 credits
Further learning and practice of the main elements of software
engineering while working on software project teams in industry or on
projects with industry clients. Topics include software requirements,
design, construction, testing and quality, sustainment, security,
and systems engineering, and project management. A diversity,
equity, inclusion, and belonging lens is applied to both technical and
professional course content. Course must be taken concurrently with SE
411W. Senior standing in SE program and at least 12 credits earned in SE
technical cores and electives.
Prerequisites: SE 312W, SE 392. Senior standing in SE program and at least
12 credits earned in SE technical cores and electives.
Corequisites: SE 411W
SE 492 Software Engineering Capstone 2 4 credits
Students further learn and develop the essential elements of software
engineering while working on software project teams in industry or on
projects with industry clients. Further development and rounding out
of experience with software requirements, design, construction, testing
and quality, sustainment, security, and systems engineering, and project
management. A diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging lens is applied
to both technical and professional course content. Course must be taken
concurrently with SE 412W. Senior standing in SE program and at least
12 credits earned in SE technical cores and electives.
Prerequisites: SE 411W, SE 491
Corequisites: SE 412W
SE 495 Software Engineering Seminar 1 credit
Students learn about software engineering practice through seminars
with faculty, graduate students, undergraduate students admitted to
the SE major, visiting researchers, and industry members. SE students
are assisted in their development as learners and professional citizens
through workshops. A diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging lens is
applied throughout. This course is repeated by upper-division Software
Engineering students every semester. Requires admission to the program.
Prerequisites: Admission to the program.
SE 498W Senior Thesis 4 credits
Advanced study and research in the field of software engineering
required. Topic of the senior thesis determined jointly by the student
and the faculty advisor. Deliverables include written thesis and formal
oral presentation. Elective. Cannot be repeated for credit. Senior
standing in the program and at least 12 credits earned in technical
cores and electives.
Prerequisites: SE 312W, SE 392. Senior standing in the program and at least
12 credits earned in technical cores and electives.
Spanish
SPAN 101 Elementary Spanish I 4 credits
An introduction to the basic language skills of listening, speaking,
reading and writing; presentation of condensed cultural notes.
SPAN 102 Elementary Spanish II 4 credits
An introduction to the basic language skills of listening, speaking,
reading and writing; presentation of condensed cultural notes.
Prerequisites: SPAN 101 or equivalent
SPAN 193 Individual Study Abroad: Elementary Spanish I1-6 credits
Introductory work toward proficiency in reading, writing speaking and
listening skills. Content varies. May be repeated for credit. Study for
credit must be approved by the department prior to departure.
SPAN 194 Individual Study Abroad: Elementary Spanish II1-6 credits
Introductory work toward proficiency in reading, writing, speaking and
listening skills. Content varies. May be repeated for credit. Study for
credit must be approved by the department prior to departure.
SPAN 201 Intermediate Spanish I 4 credits
A review of the fundamentals of grammar, practice in written and
oral expression, development of listening and reading skills, brief
cultural components.
Prerequisites: one year university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 202 Intermediate Spanish II 4 credits
A review of the fundamentals of grammar, practice in written and
oral expression, development of listening and reading skills, brief
cultural components.
Prerequisites: one year university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 210W Composition and Conversation Workshop 4 credits
Includes basic communication exchanges, common vocabulary and
experiences. Emphasis is on improving written expression through
compositions related to socio-cultural topics of the countries in which
Spanish is the primary language.
SPAN 250 Spanish Through Latin Dancing 4 credits
This course is an immersive and kinesthetic way to learn or review
Spanish. Spanish is used as the language of instruction in order to teach
students the basics to various types of Latin dancing, including salsa,
bachata, and merengue. Students will learn about the history of each
dance and will be able to identify each genre of music. Specific Spanish
vocabulary covered includes lyrics to songs, names of dance steps,
dancing commands, and phrases needed to participate in a Latin dance
event in a Spanish-speaking country. Students will also learn about the
cultural importance of dancing in different Spanish-speaking countries.
SPAN 256 Individual Study Abroad: Supervised Project 1-6 credits
Topics will vary. May be repeated for credit.
SPAN 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4 credits
This course explores a wide range of cultural topics such as race, gender,
human rights, social conflict, mythology, imaginary worlds, etc. Topics
vary every semester and will be explored from a global perspective
involving at least 4 cultures (e.g., Dakota, German, Francophone,
Scandinavian, Hispanic, Lusophone, etc.). The course is taught in
English and exposes students to international and diverse points of view
that prepare them to be global citizens.
SPAN 293 Individual Study Abroad: Intermediate Spanish I1-6 credits
Development of reading, writing, speaking and listening skills at the
intermediate level. Content varies. May be repeated for credit. Study for
credit must be approved by the department prior to departure. Pre: One
year university level Spanish or equivalent
Prerequisites: One year university level Spanish or equivalent
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 355
SPAN 294 Individual Study Abroad: Intermediate
Spanish II 1-6 credits
Development of reading, writing, speaking and listening skills at the
intermediate level. Content varies. May be repeated for credit. Study for
credit must be approved by the department prior to departure.
Prerequisites: One year university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 301 Topics in Language 1-4 credits
Topics will vary and course may be repeated for credit. Language topics
include pronunciation and intonation, advanced grammar, Spanish
for the marketplace, etc. The focus is on advanced oral or written
communication.
Prerequisites: Two years of university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 310 Conversation 1-4 credits
Emphasis on development of oral communication skills and
improvement in writing.
SPAN 311W Composition Workshop for Heritage/Bilingual
Speakers 4 credits
Develop writing and reading skills for academic and professional settings
for students with intermediate high oral language proficiency who would
like to develop their critical reading skills and improve their writing for
academic and professional purposes. Practice of orthography, stylistics,
compositional elements characteristic of writing in Spanish for a variety
of cultural settings, etc. and development of communicative competence
for a Spanish-speaking audience based on multicultural readings.
SPAN 350 Topics in Hispanic Cultures 4 credits
A critical analysis of cultural and historical events that have shaped the
Hispanic world from a transatlantic perspective. We explore the multiple
cultures that are part of the Spanish, Latin American, and US regions
and examine concepts such as Hispanic identity, colonial/postcolonial
discourses, immigration, race, etc. This course is in Spanish.
Prerequisites: Two years of university-level Spanish or proof of equivalent
proficiency.
SPAN 355 Spanish Cultures 1-4 credits
Major cultural and historical aspects of Spain from ancient times
to the present.
Prerequisites: Two years university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 356 Latin American Cultures 1-4 credits
Major cultural and historical aspects of Latin America from pre-colonial
times to the present.
Prerequisites: Two years university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 365 Selected Readings 1-4 credits
Discussion and analysis of major themes and movements based
on selected readings from representative authors from the Spanish
speaking world.
Prerequisites: Two years university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 393 Individual Study Abroad: Advanced Spanish I 1-6 credits
Increase proficiency of reading, writing, speaking and listening skills.
Content varies. May be repeated for credit. Study for credit must be
approved by the department prior to departure.
Prerequisites: Two years university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 394 Supervised Study Abroad: Advanced Spanish II1-6 credits
Emphasis is on reading, writing, speaking and listening skills. Content
varies. May be repeated for credit. Study for credit must be approved by
the department prior to departure.
Prerequisites: Two years university level Spanish or equivalent
SPAN 395 Individual Study Abroad: Readings in Hispanic
Literature 1-6 credits
An introduction to reading literature in Spanish. Discussion and
analysis of representative works by major authors from the Spanish
speaking world.
SPAN 396 Experiencing Diverse Cultures 1-3 credits
This course will focus on acquisition of cultural, personal and universal
dimensions of cultural learning that will lead to recognition and
(appropriate) response to conditions of marginalized populations as they
experience first-hand diverse cultures. Diverse Cultures: Gold
Prerequisites: SPAN 201, SPAN 202
SPAN 401 Topics in Linguistics 1-4 credits
Topics may vary. Course may be repeated for credit. Discussion and
analysis of Spanish linguistics (syntax, sociolinguistics, historical
linguistics, translation theory and practice.)
Prerequisites: Completion of 4 credits of 300 level or equivalent
SPAN 402 Topics in Spanish Peninsular Literature 1-4 credits
Topics vary: Spanish Literature from Medieval to Modern Times. May be
repeated for credit.
Prerequisites: Completion of 4 credits of 300 level or equivalent
SPAN 403W Topics in Spanish American Literature 1-4 credits
Topics vary: major writers from Spanish America; Spanish American
novel; Spanish American poetry; Spanish American drama; Spanish
American short story; romanticism, the Mexican novel. May be
repeated for credit.
Prerequisites: Completion of 4 credits of 300 level or equivalent
SPAN 405 Topics in Hispanic Literatures 4 credits
A critical analysis of Hispanic literature from the different regions of
the Hispanic world (Spain, Latin America, US). We explore the multiple
literary trends that are part of the Spanish-speaking regions and examine
concepts such as Hispanic identity, colonial/postcolonial discourses,
immigration, etc. through literary discourses. This course is in Spanish.
Prerequisites: Completion of 4 credits of 300 -level or equivalent proficiency
level.
SPAN 407 Topics in Translation 1-4 credits
Introduction to the theory and practice of translation. This course is
targeted at Spanish students and language professionals interested in
developing translation skills, as well as in finding out what is involved in
becoming a professional translator.
SPAN 450 Spanish for the Professions 4 credits
This course is targeted at language professionals including teachers,
business professionals, health professionals, law enforcement
professionals. The purpose is to improve overall oral proficiency and
address communication issues and vocabulary associated with the
students’ field of expertise.
356 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
SPAN 492 Independent Study 1-3 credits
Variable topics.
Prerequisites: Completion of eight 300-level credits, or equivalent
SPAN 493 Individual Study Abroad: Topics in Language and
Linguistics 1-6 credits
Topics will vary. May be repeated for credit. Study for credit must be
approved by the department prior to departure.
Prerequisites: Two years university level Spanish
SPAN 494 Individual Study Abroad: Topics in Spanish American
Literature 1-6 credits
Topics will vary. May be repeated for credit. Study for credit must be
approved by the department prior to departure.
Prerequisites: Two years university level Spanish
SPAN 495 Individual Study Abroad: Topics in Spanish Peninsular
Literature 1-6 credits
Topics will vary. May be repeated for credit.
Prerequisites: Two years university level Spanish
SPAN 496 Individual Study Abroad: Topics in Spanish American
Culture 1-6 credits
Topics will vary. May be repeated for credit.
Prerequisites: Two years university level Spanish
SPAN 497 Individual Study Abroad: Topics in Spanish Peninsular
Culture 1-6 credits
Topics will vary. May be repeated for credit.
SPAN 498 Internship: Spanish for the Professions 1-4 credits
Internship in Spanish is designed to provide opportunities to apply
classroom learning to practice and enhance skills, to experience the
workplace and professional demands, and to explore a career.
SPAN 499 Individual Study 1-4 credits
Variable topics.
Prerequisites: completion of eight 300-level credits, or equivalent
Special Education
SPED 108 Human Services and Disabilities 3 credits
Exploration of human service professions serving and interacting with
individuals with disabilities. Diverse Cultures: Purple
SPED 320 Culturally and Linguistically Sustaining Practices
Seminar 1 1 credit
This seminar is the first of a four-part seminar series. Learners will be
introduced to the intersectionality of identities and multiple theories of
race and ethnicity. Students will actively engage in dialogue and learning
opportunities focused on the role race and racism have in perpetuating
social disparities between dominant and marginalized racial groups.
SPED 321 Culturally and Linguistically Sustaining Practices
Seminar 2 1 credit
This seminar is part two of a four-part seminar series. Learners will build
upon seminar one to gain understanding and develop plans, procedures,
and actions to create learning environments with a foundation
of culturally responsive teaching and deep social and cognitive
neuroscience. Learners will build upon seminar one’s determined
problem of practice or policy implementation resulting in education
inequity with research and study of historical context and analysis of
what continues to show up today.
SPED 322 Culturally and Linguistically Sustaining Practices
Seminar 3 1 credit
This seminar is part three of a four-part seminar series. Learners will
build upon seminars one and two to gain understanding and develop
plans, procedures, and actions to create learning environments with
a foundation of culturally responsive teaching and deep social and
cognitive neuroscience. Learners will build upon previous seminars
determined problem of practice or policy implementation resulting in
education inequity with research and study of historical context and
analysis of what continues to show up today.
SPED 323 Culturally and Linguistically Sustaining Practices
Seminar 4 1 credit
This seminar is part four of a four-part seminar series. Learners will
build upon the first three seminars to further understand culturally and
linguistically sustaining practices. Critical discussions and collaborative
activities will deepen understanding of the intersections between culture,
language, beliefs, and values about disability and special education.
This course provides theoretical foundations and practical strategies
for educators to create and sustain classroom communities that honor
the diverse backgrounds of their students while holding them to
high standards.
SPED 324 Accessing the general education curriculum 2 credits
This course provides teacher candidates with the knowledge and skills
necessary to understand curriculum standards to design instruction
related to the general education curriculum. It will provide candidates
with opportunities to identify materials and curriculum to ensure access
to the general education standards for students with IEPs.
SPED 333 Transition Plan/Secondary Methods for Students w/Mild
Moderate Disabilities 4 credits
This course is designed to teach secondary assessment, instructional and
transition planning methods needed by students in the undergraduate
program of study in Special Education - Academic and Behavioral
Strategist. The course focuses on strategies that promote choice and
quality of life for young adults with mild to moderate disabilities.
SPED 401 IEP Writing and Professional Practice 4 credits
This course will introduce teacher candidates to different aspects of
being a Special Educator, including writing Individual Education
Program plans, working collaboratively, addressing strategies for
working with paraprofessionals, developing an understanding of
collaboration including co-teaching, and using technology in the
classroom to assist student learning.
SPED 404 Instructional Decision Making 4 credits
This course provides the student learner with the knowledge and skills
necessary to make effective data-based decisions within the instructional
context. Students will gain training in and knowledge of instructional
decision making at the individual and systems level.
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 357
SPED 405 Individuals with Exceptional Needs 3 credits
This course provides a rigorous overview to the education of children
and youth who differ greatly from the average in physical, cognitive,
emotional or social characteristics. It introduces the student to
Minnesota’s Graduation Standards Rule in relation to the needs of
children and youth who receive special education services.
SPED 406 Strategies for Teaching Learners with Special Needs:
Reading & Writing 4 credits
This course teaches how to select and apply specific evidence-based
reading and writing strategies for students with mild/moderate
disabilities. Students will learn basic instructional principles behind
validated instructional models and how to use these models in different
instructional settings.
SPED 407 Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports 3 credits
This course is designed to teach the principles of Positive Behavior
Supports and intervention planning. Students will learn how PBIS can
be applied at the school, classroom, and individual levels. Students will
apply learned information to identify successful interventions.
SPED 408 Individuals with Diverse and Exceptional Needs 4 credits
Designed to provide an introduction and overview of the characteristics
and educational needs of children and youth with diverse and
exceptional needs in the public school. The course introduces Minnesota
Graduation Standards Rules in relationship to the needs of students with
diverse and exceptional needs.
SPED 409 Learning and Human Development for Diverse
Learners 4 credits
Introduces students to theories of learning and human development as
they relate to regular and diverse learning populations. Students will
acquire an understanding of the many factors that affect learning and
human development and strategies that can be used to enhance learning
for all learning populations. Diverse Cultures: Gold
SPED 410 Assessment, Evaluation, and Individualized Planning for
Diverse Learners 4 credits
Provides the student learner with the knowledge and skills to assess
the individual needs of the student learner and design an educational
program based on the assessment information collected. Emphasis will
be placed on providing the student learner with the opportunity to learn
and administer a variety of norm-referenced and criterion-referenced
test instruments and apply test results to developing individual education
programs for a variety of learners with diverse educational needs.
SPED 411 Effective Strategies for the Inclusive Classroom 4 credits
Describes and demonstrates strategies that teachers can use to
differentiate the curriculum to meet the needs of special learners in
an inclusive classroom. Course will also examine the latest knowledge
related to intelligence, creativity, holistic education and classroom
differentiation.
SPED 412 Due Process, Planning & Design of the Individual
Education Program 4 credits
Provides student learner with the knowledge and skills to plan, develop,
and implement the IEP for a student with DCD. In addition, the
student learner will develop an understanding of the alternative dispute
processes in the state of Minnesota. The student learner will learn
the legal requirements of the IEP process and parental participation
including a) how to operate the IEP process, b) conciliation process, c)
participation in mediation, and d) due process as outlined in IDEA 1997.
Legal issues and requirements will be discussed.
SPED 413 Professional Growth and Development for Teachers of
Diverse Learners 4 credits
Introduces students to methods and strategies for personal and
professional growth and development. As a result of taking this course,
students will be able to a) engage in reflective inquiry for personal and
professional growth, b) identify and demonstrate dispositions necessary
for teaching special needs learners, c) understand the cultural, social,
and other environmental effects on learning and human development,
and d) use strategies for personal and professional growth.
SPED 414 Literary Methods for an Inclusive Classroom: Diverse
Learners 4 credits
Provides an introduction to reading and language arts instruction for
special needs and other students in an inclusive classroom. As a result of
taking this course, students will be able to plan and implement effective
literacy lessons and utilize a variety of differentiation strategies.
SPED 422 Strategies for Teaching Learners with Special Needs: Math
and Science 4 credits
This course provides instruction in the connections between critical
content concepts, standards, research-based practices in mathematics
and science, and students with mild-moderate disabilities for the
purpose of developing goals and objectives in order to implement
effective instruction.
SPED 425 Foundations of ASD and EBD 4 credits
This ASD/EBD Foundations course will provide apprentices with indepth information about ASD and EBD historical and philosophical
foundations, etiology and characteristics, legal basis and criteria and
related assessments for determining eligibility for services, as well as
general information about IEP development and research-based and
evidence-based practices.
SPED 426 ASD and EBD Methods 4 credits
This ASD/EBD Methods course will provide apprentices with in-depth
information about the FBA and BIP process, implementing behavior
management strategies that promote learning and generalization of skills
across all environments for individuals of all ages, and writing IEPs.
SPED 427 Assessment and Data-based decision making in Special
Education 4 credits
This course is designed to provide students with the foundation for
understanding and implementing the assessment process effectively.
Specifically, by building skills associated with educational assessment
methods and procedures, students will develop core decision making
and program planning competencies for students with disabilities and
from culturally or linguistically diverse backgrounds. An emphasis will
be on classroom-based measures that can be used to make educational
decisions to plan instruction for students, particularly those who are
experiencing academic difficulty.
SPED 428 Emotional and Behavioral Disorders methods 4 credits
This course is designed to equip teacher candidates with the knowledge
and skills necessary to effectively address the unique academic and
behavioral needs of students with emotional and behavioral disorders
(EBD). Candidates will explore the multifaceted nature of EBD and
delve into evidence-based instructional strategies and interventions
aimed at fostering academic success and positive behavior in diverse
educational settings.
SPED 429 Autism Spectrum Disorders methods 4 credits
This course will provide students with knowledge and skills about
instructional strategies that are used in the field of autism with evidence
of effectiveness, including several evidence-based practices in their
responsibilities of direct everyday instruction and/or consultation to
general education teachers.
358 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
SPED 430 Student teaching: Emotional and Behavioral
Disorders 3 credits
This course is the culmination of the MN Special Education Emotional
or Behavioral Disorders licensure program. Apprentices will complete
a student teaching experience in which they gradually assume the full
responsibilities of a special education teacher under the guidance of their
Journey Worker.
SPED 431 Student Teaching: Autism Spectrum Disorder 3 credits
This course is the culmination of the MN Special Education Autism
Spectrum Disorders licensure program. Apprentices will complete a
student teaching experience in which they gradually assume the full
responsibilities of a special education teacher under the guidance of their
Journey Worker.
SPED 448W Behavior Management and Learning Environments for
Diverse Learners 4 credits
This course is designed to teach pre-service special education
teachers the basics of Applied Behavior Analysis as well as classroom
management skills that foster positive interactions among students in
pre-K through 12th grade. Students will learn to conduct behavioral
assessments and report results through professional writing.
SPED 458 Seminar: Student Teaching 4 credits
Focuses on competencies, strategies, issues and trends to prepare the
student to teach persons with DCD.
Corequisites: SPED 459
SPED 459 Student Teaching: Mild and Moderate Disabilities8 credits
Focuses on documenting the university student’s ability to apply the
knowledge and skills learned in coursework and teach youth with DCD
in the public school. The university student will assess students with
DCD, develop individual goals and objectives, design instructional units
and lesson plans, implement instruction in the LRE, and evaluate the
effectiveness of instructional interventions.
Corequisites: SPED 458
SPED 490 Workshop in Special Education 1-3 credits
Authentic applications of special education knowledge.
SPED 491 In-Service Special Education 1-2 credits
Teaching students with disabilities.
SPED 499 Individual Study 1-3 credits
Advanced independent study in a specified area.
Statistics
STAT 154 Elementary Statistics 4 credits
An introduction to statistical concepts and methods that is applicable to
all disciplines. Topics include descriptive measures of data, probability
and probability distributions, statistical inference, tests of hypotheses,
confidence intervals, correlation, linear regression, and analysis of
variance. The use of statistical software will be emphasized. Prereq:
ACT Math sub-score of 19 or higher, successful completion of MATH
098 or appropriate placement scores (see Placement Information under
Statistics) Fall, Spring, Summer GE-4
Prerequisites: Satisfy Placement Table in this section, or MATH 098 with
grade of P.
STAT 221 Applied Probability and Statistics for Engineers 3 credits
An introduction to statistics with emphasis on the applied probability
models used in Science and Engineering. Topics covered include
samples, probability, probability distributions, estimation, one and
two samples hypotheses tests, correlation, simple and multiple
linear regressions.
Prerequisites: MATH 112 with grade of “C” (2.0) or better
STAT 354 Concepts of Probability & Statistics 4 credits
A calculus-based introduction to probability and statistics. Topics
include probability, random variables, probability distributions
(discrete and continuous), joint probability distributions (discrete
and continuous), statistical inference (both estimation and hypothesis
testing), confidence intervals for distribution of parameters and their
functions, sample size determinations, analysis of variance, regression,
and correlation. This course meets the needs of the practitioner and the
person who plans further study in statistics. Same as MATH 354. consent
Fall, Spring, Summer
Prerequisites: MATH 122 with C or better or consent
STAT 356 Introduction to Programming in SAS 3 credits
Introduction to basic programming techniques: creating DATA and
PROC statements, libraries, functions, programming syntax, and
formats. Descriptive and Inferential statistics in SAS. Emphasis is
placed on using these tools for statistical analyses. Working with arrays,
loop and SAS macro.
Prerequisites: STAT 154 or instructor’s approval
STAT 398 CPT: Co-Operative Experience 0 credits
Curricular Practical Training: Co-Operative Experience is a zerocredit full-time practical training experience for one semester and
an adjacent fall or spring term. Special rules apply to preserve fulltime student status. Please contact an advisor in your program for
complete information.
Prerequisites: At least 60 credits earned; in good standing; instructor
permission; co-op contract; other prerequisites may also apply.
STAT 450 Regression Analysis 3 credits
Simple and multiple linear regression, model adequacy checking and
validation, identification of outliers, leverage and influence, polynomial
regression, variable selection and model building strategies, nonlinear
regression, and generalized linear regression.
Prerequisites: MATH 354 / STAT 354 or STAT 455 with “C” (2.0) or better
or consent
STAT 451 Design and Analysis of Experiments 3 credits
Randomized complete block design, Latin squares design, Graco- Latin
squares design, balanced incomplete block design, factorial design,
fractional factorial design, response surface method, fixed effects and
random effects models, nested and split plot design.
Prerequisites: MATH 354 / STAT 354 or STAT 455 with “C” (2.0) or better
or consent
STAT 455 Theory of Statistics I 4 credits
A mathematical approach to statistics with derivation of theoretical
results and of basic techniques used in applications. Includes probability,
continuous probability distributions, multivariate distributions,
functions of random variables, central limit theorem and statistical
inference. Same as MATH 455.
Prerequisites: MATH 223 with “C” (2.0) or better or consent
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 359
STAT 456 Theory of Statistics II 4 credits
A mathematical approach to statistics with derivation of theoretical
results and of basic techniques used in applications, including
sufficient statistics, additional statistical inference, theory of statistical
tests, inferences about normal models and nonparametric methods.
Same as MATH 456.
Prerequisites: MATH 455, STAT 455 with “C” (2.0) or better or consent
STAT 457 Sample Survey, Design and Analysis 3 credits
Sampling distributions: means and variances. Bias, robustness and
efficiency. Random sampling, systematic sampling methods including
stratified random sampling, cluster sampling and two-stage sampling,
ratio, regression, and population size estimation. Suitable statistical
software is introduced, for example, MATLAB, R, SAS, etc.
Prerequisites: Either MATH/STAT 354 or both MATH 121 and STAT 154
with “C” (2.0) or better, or consent.
STAT 458 Categorical Data Analysis 3 credits
Forms of multivariate analysis for discrete data, two dimensional tables,
models of independence, log linear models, estimation of expected
values, model selection, higher dimensional tables, logistic models
and incompleteness. Logistic regression. Suitable statistical software is
introduced, for example, MATLAB, R, SAS etc.
Prerequisites: Either MATH/STAT 354 or both MATH 121 and STAT 154
with “C” (2.0) or better, or consent.
STAT 459 Nonparametric Methods 3 credits
Derivation and usage of nonparametric statistical methods in univariate,
bivariate, and multivariate data. Applications in count, score, and rank
data, analysis of variance for ranked data. Nonparametric regression
estimation. Suitable statistical software is introduced, for example,
MATLAB, R, SAS, etc.
Prerequisites: Either MATH/STAT 354 or both STAT 154 and MATH 121
with “C” (2.0) or better, or consent.
STAT 488 Seminar 1-3 credits
The study of a particular topic primarily based upon recent literature.
May be repeated for credit on each new topic.
STAT 491 In-Service 1-4 credits
A course designed to upgrade the qualifications of persons on-the-job.
May be repeated for credit on each new topic.
STAT 492 Statistics Capstone Experience 3 credits
This course is designed to allow undergraduate students an opportunity
to integrate their statistics experiences by engaging each student in
working on problems in applied or theoretical statistics. Spring
Prerequisites: STAT 457, STAT 458, STAT 459, STAT 450 (at least two of
these)
STAT 495 Selected Topics 1-4 credits
A course in an area of statistics not regularly offered. May be repeated for
credit on each new topic.
STAT 498 Internship 1-12 credits
Provides a student the opportunity to gain expertise and experience in a
special field under the supervision of a qualified person.
STAT 499 Individual Study 1-4 credits
Independent individual study under the guidance and direction of a
faculty member. Special arrangements must be made with an appropriate
faculty member. May be repeated for credit of each new topic.
Theater arts
THEA 100 Introduction to Theatre 3 credits
Survey of theatre arts; lectures, with lab experience available. Note:
Students may not take both THEA 115 and this class.
THEA 101 Acting for Everyone 3 credits
Performance scenes and exercises for the beginner.
THEA 102 Theatre Activity: Acting 1-2 credits
Acting in a mainstage or approved production. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 103 Theatre Activity: Management 1-2 credits
Work on stage or house management, or public relations.
May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 104 Theatre Activity: Dance Captain 1-2 credits
Serve as Dance Captain, to assist the Choreographer, for a mainstage or
approved production. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 105 Theatre Activity: Stagecraft 1-2 credits
Work on stage crew in a mainstage production. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 107 Theatre Activity: Costume 1-2 credits
Work on costumes or wardrobe crew in a mainstage production.
May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 108 Theatre Activity: Lighting 1-2 credits
Work on lighting crew in a mainstage production. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 109 Theatre Activity: Sound 1-2 credits
Work on sound crew in a mainstage production. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 110 Fundamentals of Acting 3 credits
Performance scenes and acting exercises for the beginning theatre major.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 111 Private Voice for the Actor 1 credits
Private lessons in developing the actor’s singing voice. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 121 Movement for Theatre 3 credits
Instructs the student through a series of movement exercises in body
alignment, breathing, flexibility, strength and coordination.
Prerequisites: Consent
360 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
THEA 210 Intermediate Acting 3 credits
The process of character structuring through script analysis
and scene work.
Prerequisites: THEA 110 or consent
THEA 212 Music Skills for Theatre I 2 credits
A group instruction course covering fundamental music theory and
skills applicable to the theatre artist including the study of music
notation, style, harmony and literature. Skills learned will include basic
keyboarding, sight reading and sight singing music. Fall
THEA 213 Music Skills for Theatre II 2 credits
A continuation of Music Skill for Theatre I, this course will focus on
recent developments in the American Music Theatre while increasing
skills learned in the previous class. Spring
Prerequisites: THEA 212
THEA 214 Singing for the Actor 1 credits
Study and exercise to prepare actors to sing for the musical theatre with
the focus on competence and musicianship.
Prerequisites: Permission of Instructor
THEA 215 Audition Methods 3 credits
The development of a repertoire of audition pieces to increase the ability
to perform with confidence on short notice.
Prerequisites: THEA 110 or consent
THEA 231 Stage Management 3 credits
Exploration of all aspects of theatrical stage management activities
through specific theoretical and practical study.
THEA 235 Fundamentals of Directing 3 credits
Introduction to the theory and practice of directing for the theatre.
Prerequisites: THEA 100 and THEA 101 or THEA 110
THEA 240 Basic Design 3 credits
Introduction to the concepts, process, and practices of theatrical
scenic, lighting, and costume design including script analysis and
historical overviews.
Prerequisites: THEA 100
THEA 245 Scene Painting I 3 credits
Introductory course examining the basics of materials and techniques
of scenic painting with a large amount of lab time for experimentation
with technique.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 252 Theatre Technology 3 credits
Fundamental concepts of technical theatre; an overview of basic
stagecraft, costuming, lighting, and sound in the contemporary theatre.
Prerequisites: THEA 100
THEA 255 Stagecraft 3 credits
Introduction to theory and practice of construction techniques used
in the theatre.
Prerequisites: THEA 100
THEA 260 Costume Construction 3 credits
Theory and techniques in stage costume construction.
Prerequisites: THEA 100
THEA 262 Dance Production: Costumes 1 credits
Fundamental concepts of costume design and production for the Dance.
THEA 265 Stage Makeup 2 credits
Theory and practical laboratory work in stage makeup applications.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 270 Lighting Technology 3 credits
The study of lighting technology and its effect on lighting design.
Prerequisites: THEA 100
THEA 272 Dance Production: Lighting 1 credits
Fundamental concepts of lighting design and production for the Dance.
THEA 275 Sound Technology 3 credits
The study of sound technology and its effect on sound design.
Prerequisites: THEA 100
THEA 276 Dance Production: Sound 1 credits
Fundamental concepts of sound design and production for the Dance.
THEA 285W Theatre of Diversity 3 credits
A survey of literature, artists and performances with specific regard to
the theatre of diversity including, but not restricted to: Feminist Theatre,
Gay and Lesbian Theatre, African-American Theatre, Asian American
Theatre, Hispanic Theatre, etc. Diverse Cultures: Purple
THEA 295 Touring Theatre 1-4 credits
Work on the actual mounting and performance of a touring
theatrical production.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 300 Summer Stock 1-4 credits
Technical work and/or acting in summer theatre productions.
May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 301 Practicum: Directing 1-2 credits
A considerable production responsibility which utilizes skills in script
analysis, actor coaching, design coordination and general production
management; or assistant directing for a mainstage production.
May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 302 Practicum: Acting 1-2 credits
A considerable production responsibility dealing with the preparation
and performance of a major acting role. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 303 Practicum: Theatre Management 1-2 credits
Special assignments in stage management, house, and/or concessions
management, public relations or related areas. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 361
THEA 304 Practicum: Scene Design 1-2 credits
Preparation and execution of a major scene design assignment. Requires
a design and construction schedule, preliminary and final design
concepts, and necessary drafting details. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 305 Practicum: Tech Theatre 1-2 credits
A considerable production responsibility dealing with some technical
aspects including technical drawings, budget management, or
construction techniques. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 306 Practicum: Costume Design 1-2 credits
Full and assistant costume design assignments for theatre productions.
May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 307 Practicum: Costume Construction 1-2 credits
The construction of costumes for theatre productions. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 308 Practicum: Light Design 1-2 credits
Preparation and execution of a major lighting design assignment.
Requires a design with appropriate schedules, supervision of hanging,
focusing and cues. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 309 Practicum: Sound 1-2 credits
Preparation and execution of a major sound design assignment including
all sound effects, reinforcement and amplification. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 311 Private Voice for the Actor 0 credits
Continuation of THEA 111. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: THEA 111
THEA 315 Careers in Theatre 1 credits
Introduction to the various career opportunities directly in or
appertaining to theatrical arts performance.
Prerequisites: THEA 100
THEA 335 Intermediate Directing 3 credits
Intermediate Directing focuses on the semiotics of staging and casting,
composition, and artist leadership. Students learn how to lead rehearsals,
cast shows, and create powerful and meaningful stage pictures. Actor
coaching is developed.
Prerequisites: THEA 235
THEA 337 Devised Theatre 3 credits
Students will build a strong ensemble and work together to create a new
production about a specific event or theme relevant to them.
THEA 381W Play Analysis 3 credits
The study and application of various analytical approaches to play texts
in preparation for production.
Prerequisites: THEA 100
THEA 400 Portfolio Seminar 1 credits
Exploring the techniques of building a working design/technology
portfolio and resume.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 410 Musical Theatre Acting I 3 credits
Introduction to musical theatre performance techniques for the
American Musical Theatre actor.
Prerequisites: THEA 210 or consent
THEA 411 Music Theatre Acting II 3 credits
Scene studies from the American Musical Theatre, as well as
performance techniques for the singing actor.
Prerequisites: THEA 210 and consent
THEA 412 Theatre Speech 3 credits
Study and exercises in vocal development emphasizing the demands
of stage speech.
Prerequisites: THEA 210 or consent
THEA 414 Stage Dialects 3 credits
A study and practice of vocal dialects most often used in performance.
Prerequisites: THEA 413
THEA 416 Acting Scene Studies 3 credits
Advanced scene studies with a focus on analysis and the varied
approaches to developing motivations.
Prerequisites: THEA 210 or consent
THEA 417 Acting Techniques 3 credits
The development of individual performance craft and advanced
acting methodologies.
Prerequisites: THEA 210 or consent
THEA 417W Acting Techniques 3 credits
The development of individual performance craft and advanced
acting methodologies.
Prerequisites: THEA 210 or consent
THEA 418 Acting Styles 3 credits
Advanced scene studies in classical and stylized dramatic literature.
Prerequisites: THEA 210 or consent
THEA 419 Acting for Radio/TV 3 credits
Development of performance craft for the media.
Prerequisites: THEA 210 and consent
THEA 426 Stage Combat 2 credits
An exploration of basic skills involved in unarmed combat and a
variety of historical weapons systems with primary emphasis on
theatricality and safety.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 430 Theatre Management 3 credits
Exposes students to the functions of theatre managers through case
studies, discussions, practical application and readings.
Prerequisites: THEA 235
362 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
THEA 432 Practicum: Choreography 1-2 credits
Serve as Choreographer for a mainstage or approved production.
May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 433 Practicum: Musical Directing 1-2 credits
Serve as Musical Director for a mainstage or approved production.
May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 434 Practicum: Dramaturgy 1-2 credits
Serve as Dramaturg for a mainstage or approved production.
May be repeated.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 435 Advanced Directing Methods 3 credits
Advanced studies in script analysis, actor psychology and staging
techniques culminating in performance projects with critical analysis.
Prerequisites: THEA 235 and consent
THEA 440 Scene Design I 3 credits
Development of techniques and skills in the creation of scenery.
Prerequisites: THEA 240 or consent
THEA 441 Scene Design II 3 credits
Refinement of model building and drawing skills in theatrical design.
Prerequisites: THEA 440
THEA 444 Styles and Ornamentation 3 credits
A visual appreciation of assorted cultures through the study of their
architecture, decoration, furniture, utensils, etc.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 445 Scene Painting II 3 credits
Provides information on materials and techniques of scenic painting
with a large amount of lab time for experimentation with technique.
Prerequisites: THEA 252 or consent
THEA 448 Drawing and Rendering for the Theatre 3 credits
Exploring compositional organization of the two-dimensional surface by
experimenting with a variety of media, materials, forms, approaches and
subjects as a means for theatrical communication.
Prerequisites: THEA 240
THEA 451 Drafting for the Theatre 3 credits
Enhances the advanced theatre student’s ability to show complex
elements of a theatrical design in a clear manner using accepted
theatrical drafting methods.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 455 Technical Direction 3 credits
Explores all facets of technical direction, construction techniques, and
project management.
Prerequisites: THEA 255
THEA 456 Advanced Technical Direction 3 credits
Explores advanced facets of technical direction including entertainment
engineering and technology currently in use in the field.
Prerequisites: THEA 455
THEA 460 Costume Design I 3 credits
Theory and techniques in costume design and execution.
Prerequisites: THEA 240 or consent
THEA 461 Costume Design II 3 credits
Advanced costume design theory and techniques.
Prerequisites: THEA 460
THEA 464 Costume History 3 credits
Survey of costume history from ancient Egypt to 1900.
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 465 Advanced Makeup 3 credits
Practical application of advanced makeup techniques.
Prerequisites: THEA 265
THEA 470 Lighting Design I 3 credits
The study of lighting equipment, usage, techniques and stage
lighting design.
Prerequisites: THEA 270
THEA 471 Lighting Design II 3 credits
Solving particular lighting design challenges.
Prerequisites: THEA 470
THEA 472 Virtual Lighting 3 credits
Computer realization for virtual lighting design to enhance practical
production quality.
Prerequisites: THEA 470. Permission of Instructor
THEA 474 Advanced Sound Technology: Digital Audio
Systems 3 credits
A study of the concepts behind digital audio and an exploration of their
practical uses.
Prerequisites: THEA 275
THEA 475 Sound Design I 3 credits
Production and sound effects, electronic sound reinforcement of live
performance, choice and operation of sound equipment, as well as basic
music styles and terminology.
Prerequisites: consent
THEA 476 Sound Design II 3 credits
Integrated sound design to support and enhance theatrical production.
Prerequisites: THEA 475
THEA 481 History of Western Theatre 3 credits
Survey of theatrical history from its origins to 1700.
Prerequisites: THEA 100
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 363
THEA 482 Perspectives in World Performance 3 credits
This course examines how all global performance styles and techniques
influence each other. Focusing on the last 250 years, students will
examine how performance practices from all around the world
have merged (sometimes in a celebratory way, sometimes due to
appropriation) to become the performing arts of today. Diverse
Cultures: Purple
Prerequisites: THEA 100
THEA 483 Musical Theatre History 3 credits
Survey of the history of the American Musical Theatre from its origins
to the present.
Prerequisites: THEA 100 and consent
THEA 485W Theatre Dramaturgy 3 credits
This class teaches how to access historical information and present
it to directors, actors, or designers in a way that will help them make
informed and practical artistic choices.
Prerequisites: THEA 100 and consent
THEA 487W Playwriting 3 credits
Writing the short and long play.
Prerequisites: THEA 100. Permission of instructor.
THEA 490 Topics in Theatre 1-3 credits
Special topics not covered in other classes. May be repeated.
Prerequisites: THEA 100. Permission of Instructor
THEA 497 (1-8) Internship 1-8 credits
Prerequisites: Consent
THEA 499 Individual Study 1-3 credits
Prerequisites: Consent
Urban and Regional Studies
URBS 100 Introduction to the City 3 credits
A fresh look at the city, with emphasis on the reasons why cities have
grown and how people can make cities livable.
URBS 110 The City: Design and Architecture 3 credits
Appreciation of the city as the highest cultural achievement in design
and architecture.
URBS 150 Sustainable Communities 3 credits
This course will identify and analyze global social, economic, political
and environmental problems impacting community viability and explore
the full range of solutions to these problems. The course will view
communities as complex, sustainable organisms and bring together the
works of the great minds working on sustainability.
URBS 230 Community Leadership 3 credits
Introduction to community leadership-elected, professional, or
voluntary-and the skills and values which support it.
URBS 230W Community Leadership 3 credits
Introduction to community leadership-elected, professional, or
voluntary-and the skills and values which support it.
URBS 401 Foundations in Urban Management and Planning3 credits
This course is a survey of the local community--the forces which shape
it, the significance of a democratic public, and the professional practice
of local government service. Fall, Spring
URBS 402 Urban Analysis 3 credits
Introduction to skills and techniques used to form questions about
urban affairs, to organize and analyze information to answer it, and to
present the results of one’s analysis in a professional format. Fall, Spring
URBS 412 Public Information and Involvement 3 credits
This course, designed for student preparing for a professional career
in local government or public service, focuses on media relations and
building citizen involvement through public awareness projects.
URBS 413 Urban Program Evaluation 3 credits
Reviews processes and techniques related to evaluation of
public programs.
URBS 415 Urban Housing Policy 3 credits
Public policy and programs that address issues of housing supply,
quality, costs, and neighborhood revitalization.
URBS 417 Urban Administrative Law 3 credits
An overview of local government law and local governing powers. In
addition, public issues in the legal context will be examined from a
management and operational perspective.
URBS 431 Urban Design Principles 3 credits
A basic working knowledge and vocabulary of urban design concepts
and techniques in an applied problem-solving context.
URBS 437 Urban Heritage Preservation 3 credits
Preservation techniques, principles of structural evaluation, adaptive use
potentials and options, economic consideration in preservation and the
role of legislation.
URBS 438 Historic Preservation: Policy and Field Methods 3 credits
Historic Preservation: Policy and Field Methods introduces students to
the rules and laws of structural historic preservation. The course will
investigate the major policy documents, laws, agencies, survey methods,
and examine how they are applied in local government preservation.
URBS 453 Grants Administration 3 credits
Raising resources for public and nonprofit organizations--from
needs assessment through obtaining funding to managing the grant
after it is awarded.
URBS 457 Economic Development 3 credits
A survey course covering the concepts, processes, tools and strategies of
economic development in local communities. Emphasis is on the “why”
and “how” of economic development.
URBS 461 Environmental Planning 3 credits
Examines and applies the fundamental concepts, techniques and
mechanisms for environmental planning at the city, county, and substate regional levels.
URBS 471 Urban Transportation 3 credits
Examines transportation problems of, and solutions for large and
medium sized cities. Special emphasis on reducing traffic congestion,
improving management of transit systems, and linking transportation
and land-use planning.
URBS 481 Selected Topics 1-3 credits
Varying topics dealing with emerging trends and contemporary needs
facing urban America.
364 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
URBS 485 Community-Based Problem Solving 1-6 credits
Problem solving in communities and direct involvement into specific
areas of study of student interest.
Prerequisites: Consent
URBS 489 Capstone Seminar 3 credits
Assemble and evaluate information and opinions into a coherent
position on what makes cities work, and prepare for entry into
professional world of work in cities.
URBS 497 (1-12) Internship 1-12 credits
Scheduled work assignments, varying in length and content, under the
supervision of selected professional sponsors.
Prerequisites: Consent
URBS 499 Individual Study 1-4 credits
Independent study under supervision of an instructor with a research
paper or report to be presented.
Prerequisites: Consent
Wellness
WELL 100 Building Academic and Wellness Skills for Student
Success 1 credits
This course builds wellness, resilience, and academic skills designed to
support your health and your life as a student through practicing skills
and strategies for stress hardiness and academic success. Throughout
the semester, students will identify their personal strengths, values, and
interests, practice skills for healthy interpersonal relationships, and
explore various domains of wellness and strategies for self-care and selfdetermination, in a structured and supportive environment. Students
will also investigate learning styles, study and test-taking strategies,
and practice various approaches to self-advocacy, planning, and
SMART goal setting.
World Languages and Cultures
WLC 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4 credits
This course explores a wide range of cultural topics such as race, gender,
human rights, social conflict, mythology, imaginary worlds, etc. Topics
vary every semester and will be explored from a global perspective
involving at least 4 cultures (e.g., Dakota, German, Francophone,
Scandinavian, Hispanic, Lusophone, etc.). The course is taught in
English and exposes students to international and diverse points of view
that prepare them to be global citizens. Diverse Cultures: Purple
WLC 310 Portuguese for Spanish Speakers 4 credits
The course is designed to help advanced Spanish students identify
similarities and differences between Spanish and Portuguese and
begin developing Portuguese productive language skills and cultural
competency through comparative practice.
Prerequisites: SPAN 201W. Completion of one 300 level Spanish course or
equivalent intermediate-midproficiency level of Spanish for admission to
the course. See department for language proficiency evaluation information
or instructor permission.
WLC 398 CPT: Co-Operative Experience 0 credits
Curricular practical training for World Languages and Cultures is a
full-time practical experience in a professional setting in which more
than one language is used. The experience is designed to allow students
to improve overall communicative proficiency in languages and address
business practices associated with the students’ academic field of
expertise. The Co-Op experience covers a minimum of two consecutive
academic terms and requires that students register for a minimum of two
consecutive academic terms following the experience.
WLC 460 Methods of Teaching Modern Languages 3 credits
Introduction to theory and practice of modern language teaching,
including lessons in listening, speaking, reading, writing, vocabulary,
and culture. Includes testing, program design, lesson planning, and use
of technology. Fall
Prerequisites: Students must demonstrate sufficient language competence
in the target language so as to be able to teach courses exclusively in the
target language. See content faculty for evaluation.
WLC 461 Applied Modern Language Teaching Methods 1 credits
A field experience including placement in the secondary level school
setting for students earning licensure in modern language teaching.
Practicum students work with middle or high school students of French,
German, or Spanish. Take concurrently with or following WLC 460.
WLC 462 Foreign Languages in the Elementary School (FLES)
Methods 3 credits
Introduction to theory and practice of modern language teaching for
children grades K-6, including oral language development, second
language literacy development, content-based language instruction, and
techniques for language immersion programs.
Prerequisites: Students must demonstrate sufficient language competence
in the target language so as to be able to teach courses exclusively in the
target language. See content faculty for evaluation.
WLC 463 Applied FLES Methods 1 credits
A field experience including placement in the elementary level school
setting for students earning licensure in modern language teaching.
Practicum students work with elementary school students in French,
German, or Spanish. Take concurrently with or following WLC 462.
WLC 499 Individual Study 1-4 credits
Special topics in language education. May be repeated for credit.
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 365
GENERAL EDUCATION AND GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
Graduation Requirement
General Education
Diverse Cultures: Purple
Narrative
To prepare students with course content and the analytical and reflective skills to better understand diversity in the United States and in other societies across the world.
Learning Outcomes
Students will be able to:
1. Master an understanding of diversity as defined by Minnesota State Mankato.
2. Acquire a substantive knowledge base to identify the impact of oppression for individuals from diverse populations.
3. Obtain the analytical skills necessary to make links between historical practices and contemporary U.S. societal issues of diversity.
4. Apply the same method for interpreting diversity issues in the United States to understanding issues of diversity in other societies across the world.
5. Develop an understanding of historical and contemporary social relations in specific societies across the world.
Satisfying Purple Courses
1. Purple courses are primarily aimed at helping students learn content.
2. Purple courses allow students to explore basic concepts such as oppression, prejudice, discrimination, racism and ethnocentrism and responses to each; civil liberties in the
context of economic, political, social, religious and educational issues of race, gender, sexual orientation, age, class and disabilities in a pluralistic society.
3. Although Purple courses may focus primarily on one diverse group of people, the course content should relate the basic concepts and issues discussed to a variety of
groups.
4. Courses must meet Purple learning outcome 1 and at least two of the other Purple learning outcomes.
5. Purple courses may have experiential and reflective components, but the primary focus is on content. 
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
AIS 112 Elementary Ojibwe I 4.00 Purple
AIS 113 Elementary Ojibwe II 4.00 Purple
AIS 130 Introduction to Indigenous Education 3.00 Purple
AIS 211 Native America to 1900 3.00 Purple
AIS 212 Native America 1900 to Present 3.00 Purple
AIS 330 Indigenous Education 3.00 Purple
AIS 340 American Indians in Film 3.00 Purple
AIS 360 Indigenous Peoples and Environmental Struggles 3.00 Purple
AIS 380 The Sacred Landscape 3.00 Purple
ANTH 101 Introduction to Anthropology 4.00 Purple
ANTH 230 Peoples and Cultures of the World 4.00 Purple
ANTH 240 Language and Culture 4.00 Purple
ANTH 245 The Social Life of Swearing 4.00 Purple
ANTH 260 Vampires, Werewolves, and Zombies: Folklore of Fear 4 Purple
ANTH 261 Taboos, Tattoos, and T-Shirts: Culture and Body Art 4 Purple
ANTH 269 Anthropology of Sex 4.00 Purple
ANTH 332 Anthropology of Religion 4 Purple
ANTH 340 Language and Power 4.00 Purple
ANTH 361 Foodways 4 Purple
ART 160 Introduction to Visual Culture 3.00 Purple
ART 260 Art History Survey I 3.00 Purple
ART 467 Art of the Islamic World 3.00 Purple
ART 469 Asian Art 3.00 Purple
CDIS 290 Introduction to Communication Disorders 3.00 Purple
CIS 113 Health Humanities and Health Informatics 4.00 Purple
CJ 101 Introduction to Criminal Justice Systems 3.00 Purple
366 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
CJ 255 Juvenile Delinquency & Justice 3.00 Purple
COMM 110 Media and Society 4.00 Purple
COMM 198 Newsgathering Practicum 1.00 Purple
COMM 203 Intercultural Communication 4.00 Purple
COMM 260 Principles of Visual Mass Media 4.00 Purple
DANC 225 Worlds of Dance 3.00 Purple
ED 101 Introduction to Critical Race Theory in Education 3.00 Purple
EET 118 Electricity - Generation, Usage & Green Alternatives 3.00 Purple
EET 125 Perspective on Technology 3.00 Purple
ENG 105 Race, Rhetoric, and Representation 4.00 Purple
ENG 125 International Children's Literature 4.00 Purple
ENG 214 Environmental Humanities 4.00 Purple
ENG 318 Multicultural Literature 2-4 Purple
ENG 319 Animals and Literature 4.00 Purple
ETHN 100 American Racial Minorities 3.00 Purple
ETHN 101 Introduction to Multicultural & Ethnic Studies 3.00 Purple
ETHN 410 Foundations of Oppression 3.00 Purple
ETHN 460 Urban Minority Problems 3.00 Purple
ETHN 470 Women of Color 3.00 Purple
ETHN 486 Racial and Ethnic Politics 3.00 Purple
FCS 100 Personal & Family Living 3.00 Purple
FCS 120 Clothing and People 3.00 Purple
FCS 275 Consumers in the Economy 3.00 Purple
FCS 400 Culturally Diverse Family Systems 3.00 Purple
GEOG 100 Elements of Geography 3.00 Purple
GEOG 102 World Regional Geography 3.00 Purple
GEOG 103 Introductory Cultural Geography 3.00 Purple
GEOG 428 Human Migration 3.00 Purple
GEOL 107 Environmental Justice in Geoscience 4.00 Purple
GWS 110 Introduction to Gender 4.00 Purple
GWS 120 Violence and Gender 4.00 Purple
GWS 220 Sex and Gender Worldwide 4.00 Purple
GWS 222 Gender, Law, & Justice 4.00 Purple
GWS 230 Gender, Race, and Popular Culture 4.00 Purple
GWS 250 Health, Wealth, and Power 4.00 Purple
GWS 411 Sexual Assault Victim Advocacy 4.00 Purple
HIST 155 History of the Family in America 3.00 Purple
HIST 171 World Civilization, 1500-Present 4.00 Purple
HIST 190 United States to 1877 4.00 Purple
HIST 191 United States Since 1877 4.00 Purple
HIST 235 World War II and the Holocaust 4.00 Purple
HIST 244 A History of Taboos and Transgressions 4.00 Purple
HIST 260 Introduction to Traditional East Asian Civilization 4.00 Purple
HIST 369 Sex in American History 4.00 Purple
HIST 408 Women and Gender in European History 4.00 Purple
HIST 410 The Witch Hunts in European History 4.00 Purple
HIST 435 East Asian History: 1945 - The Present 4.00 Purple
HIST 437 African History to 1800 4.00 Purple
HIST 438 Modern Africa 4.00 Purple
HIST 441 Colonial Latin America 4.00 Purple
HIST 442 Modern Latin America 4.00 Purple
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 367
HIST 454 Early America to 1763 4.00 Purple
HIST 455 Revolutionary & Early National America 1763-1820 4.00 Purple
HIST 458 U.S. History 1820-1861 4.00 Purple
HIST 459 U.S. History 1861-1900 4.00 Purple
HIST 462 U.S. History, 1900-1945 4.00 Purple
HIST 466 History of U.S. Foreign Relations in the Twentieth Century 4.00 Purple
HIST 467 Rock Music and American Society 4.00 Purple
HIST 470 American Frontier 4.00 Purple
HIST 471 20th Century American West 4.00 Purple
HIST 476 Comparative Slavery and Emancipation 4.00 Purple
HIST 477 African American History 4.00 Purple
HIST 478 America in Vietnam 4.00 Purple
HLTH 211 Human Sexuality in a World of Diversity 3.00 Purple
HLTH 466 Global Health 3.00 Purple
HUM 156 Global Humanities II: The Americas, Australia, & Oceania 4.00 Purple
MUSC 102 Pop Music USA: Jazz to Country to Blues 3.00 Purple
MUSC 103 Pop Music USA: R & B to MTV 3.00 Purple
MUSC 308 Women in Music 3.00 Purple
PSYC 358 Introduction to Cultural Psychology 4.00 Purple
RPLS 250 Therapeutic Recreation Services 3.00 Purple
SCAN 451 Scandinavian Crime Fiction 4.00 Purple
SOC 101 Introduction to Sociology 4.00 Purple
SOC 150 Social Problems 4.00 Purple
SOC 208 Families in Society 4.00 Purple
SOC 209 Sociology of Human Sexualities 4.00 Purple
SOC 360 Indigenous Peoples and Environmental Struggles 4.00 Purple
SOC 404 Sociology of Aging 4.00 Purple
SOC 430 Sociology of Globalization 4.00 Purple
SOC 446 Race, Culture & Ethnicity 4.00 Purple
SOC 460 Environmental Sociology 4.00 Purple
SOC 461 Urban Sociology 4.00 Purple
SOC 463 Social Stratification 4.00 Purple
SOWK 215 Introduction to Social Welfare Services 4.00 Purple
SOWK 255 Global Responses to Human Need 3.00 Purple
SPED 108 Human Services and Disabilities 3.00 Purple
THEA 482 Perspectives in World Performance 3.00 Purple
Graduation Requirement
General Education
Diverse Cultures: Gold
Narrative
To give students learning opportunities to experience diversity with reflection supervised by a faculty member; to assist them in recognizing and responding to conditions of marginalized populations. Marginalized populations refer to specific groups of peoples or
individuals that are relegated to the outer edges of society or social standing, both in this country and abroad. Such people are often
denied access to resources and privileges available to mainstream society.
Learning Outcomes
Students will be able to:
1. Interact with individuals from diverse populations outside the classroom and to have the opportunity to reflect on such interactions.
2. Demonstrate an acquisition of the basic knowledge and understanding of diversity related concepts so that the student’s experience will have meaning and context.
3. Integrate classroom knowledge with experiential learning in analyzing and responding to conditions of marginalized populations.
368 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
Students will explore basic concepts such as oppression, prejudice, discrimination, racism and ethnocentrism and responses to each; civil liberties
in the context of economic, political, social, religious and educational issues of race, gender, sexual orientation, age, class and disabilities in a
pluralistic society.
Satisfying Gold Courses
1. Gold courses require students have experiential encounters with diverse cultures and reflect on those experiences as part of the course requirements.
2. Gold courses must contain sufficient content regarding interactions with diverse populations to establish a context and conceptual base for the student to effectively reflect
on the experiences.
3. Gold courses should present content that allows students to explore basic concepts such as oppression, prejudice, discrimination, racism and ethnocentrism and responses
to each; civil liberties in the context of economic, political, social, religious and educational issues of race, gender, sexual orientation, age, class and disabilities in a
pluralistic society.
4. Courses must meet all three Gold learning outcomes.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
AIS 455 Museum Science and Representation 3.00 Gold
AIS 460 Behaving Like Relatives 3.00 Gold
AIS 497 Internship 1-12 Gold
ANTH 280 Engaged Anthropology 3.00 Gold
COMM 217 Experiential Storytelling 4.00 Gold
COMM 417 Experiential Storytelling 4.00 Gold
DHYG 336 Culturally Aware Health Care 3.00 Gold
DHYG 447 Dental Health Study Abroad 1-3 Gold
ETHN 150 Multi-Cultural/Ethnic Experience 3.00 Gold
ETHN 401 Applied Cultural Research 3.00 Gold
GERO 200 Family Dynamics of Aging 3.00 Gold
GWS 225 Queer America 4.00 Gold
GWS 420 Identity Work in Women's Reentry Experiences 4.00 Gold
HIST 232 Islamic Civilizations 4.00 Gold
HIST 280 History in Black and White 4.00 Gold
KSP 150 Exploring Careers in Education 3.00 Gold
KSP 200 Critical Issues in Public Education 3.00 Gold
MRKT 494 Fair Trade Study Abroad in Belize 3.00 Gold
MSL 498 Cultural Understanding and Language Proficiency Internship 3.00 Gold
MUSC 307 Music of the World 3.00 Gold
NURS 301 Cultural Health Immersion: Study Abroad 3.00 Gold
NURS 382 Holistic Nursing Assessment and Practice 4.00 Gold
SOC 420 Identity Work in Women's Reentry Experiences 4.00 Gold
SPAN 396 Experiencing Diverse Cultures 1-3 Gold
SPED 409 Learning and Human Development for Diverse Learners 4.00 Gold
Graduation Requirement
General Education
Goal Area 1: Communication
Narrative
Goal: To develop writers and speakers who use the English language effectively and who read, write, speak, and listen critically. At a base, all
students should complete introductory communication requirements early in their college studies. Writing competency is an ongoing process to be
reinforced through writing intensive courses and writing across the curriculum. Speaking and listening skills need reinforcement. There are multiple
opportunities for interpersonal communication, public speaking and discussion.
Part A: English Composition
Requires one course, 3 credits or more, with a grade of at least “P” or “C” (2.0). A grade of “C-” does not satisfy this goal area.
Goal: To introduce students to writing concepts and strategies with broad applicability. Students will write for a range of situations and have
opportunities to revise and reflect on their work. Emphasis will be placed on writing for academic contexts. Students will learn to access, evaluate,
synthesize, and document sources, among other academic research skills. 
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 369
Students will be able to:
1. generate ideas, draft, revise, and edit their work;
2. write for various audiences, purposes, and genres;
3. research effectively to enrich their intellectual contributions in writing;
4. integrate sources into their work, adhering to summary, paraphrase, quotation and citation conventions;
5. use reflection to advance their writing development;
6. employ syntax and usage appropriate to academic disciplines and the professional world. 
English Composition Placement: Students who need to fulfill General Education Goal Area 1, Part A are placed in a Composition course or course
sequence can demonstrate readiness to succeed following the standards in the English Composition Placement policy. 
Part B: Speech and Oral Reasoning
(Requires one course, 3 credits or more)
Goal: To develop skills necessary for reasoned communication. Courses in this goal area will require individual public speaking which is critiqued by
the instructor. Speaking and reasoning competency is an ongoing process which needs to be reinforced throughout the curriculum.
Students will be able to:
1. understand/demonstrate communication processes through invention, organization, drafting, revision, editing and presentation;
2. participate effectively in groups with emphasis on listening, critical and reflective thinking, and responding;
3. analyze, evaluate, and synthesize in a responsible manner material from diverse sources and points of view;
4. select appropriate communication choices for specific audiences;
5. construct logical and coherent arguments;
6. use authority, point of view, and individual voice and style in communications;
7. employ syntax, usage and analytical techniques appropriate to academic disciplines and the professional world. 
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
CDIS 201 Observation of Human Communication 3.00 1B
COMM 100 Fundamentals of Communication 3.00 1B
COMM 102 Public Speaking 3.00 1B
COMM 220 Speech and Debate 0-4 1B
ENG 101 Foundations of Writing & Rhetoric 4.00 1A
HIST 250 Riot and Revolution in History 4.00 1B
HIST 268 History and American Democracy 4.00 1B
POL 234 Model United Nations 4.00 1B
RPLS 276 Recreation Leadership 3.00 1B
GENERAL EDUCATION
Goal Area 2: Critical Thinking
Narrative
Requires completion of the rest of the General Education Program or one course.
Goal: To develop critical thinking, communication, and problem-solving skills. Courses in this goal area must focus on skill development and
throughout the course will provide opportunities to exercise skills although the exercise of skills requires a subject matter, the emphasis in this goal
area will be on skill development. The skills will not be ones that are specific to the practice of a particular discipline or area of inquiry but rather will
be skills that are common to different disciplines and different areas of inquiry.
Students will be able to:
1. gather and analyze information of various kinds, employing formal or informal tools to represent information in ways useful for solving problems;
2. weigh evidence for and against hypotheses;
3. recognize, construct, and evaluate arguments;
4. apply appropriate critical and evaluative principles to texts, documents, or works--one’s own or others’--in oral, visual, or written mediums.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
AST 115 Life in the Universe 2.00 02
370 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
AST 115W Life in the Universe 2.00 02
CHEM 111 Chemistry of Life Process Part II (Organic & Biochemistry) 5.00 02
CHEM 191 Chemistry Applications 3.00 02
CHEM 201 General Chemistry I 5.00 02
COMM 105W Interpersonal Communication 4.00 02
ECON 103W The Economics of Women's Issues and Public Policy in the United
States
3.00 02
ECON 207 Business Statistics 4.00 02
ENG 201W Writing Technologies 4.00 02
ENG 271W Technical Communication 4.00 02
ENG 272W Business Communication 4.00 02
FCS 101 Introduction to Family Consumer Science 3.00 02
GERO 200 Family Dynamics of Aging 3.00 02
GERO 200W Family Dynamics of Aging 3.00 02
GWS 230 Gender, Race, and Popular Culture 4.00 02
HIST 244 A History of Taboos and Transgressions 4.00 02
HIST 246W Sports and Games in History 4.00 02
HLTH 212 Consumer Health 3.00 02
KSP 150 Exploring Careers in Education 3.00 02
KSP 200 Critical Issues in Public Education 3.00 02
MATH 290 Foundations of Mathematics 4.00 02
PHIL 110 Logic and Critical Thinking 3.00 02
PHIL 112W Scientific Reasoning 3.00 02
PHYS 211 Principles of Physics I 4.00 02
PHYS 220 Skills for Introductory Physics 2.00 02
PHYS 221 General Physics I 4.00 02
POL 103W Thinking About Politics 4.00 02
PSYC 103W Psychology Today 3.00 02
PSYC 150 Science of Learning for College Student Success 2.00 02
SBS 100 02
SOC 214W Animals and Society 4.00 02
STAT 154 Elementary Statistics 4.00 02
General Education
Goal Area 3: Natural Science
Narrative
Requires two courses from different disciplines, 6 credits or more. At least one course must have a laboratory.
Goal: To improve students’ understanding of natural science principles and of the methods of scientific inquiry (i.e., the ways in which scientists
investigate natural science phenomena). Students should be encouraged to study both the biological and physical sciences.
Students will be able to:
1. develop understanding of scientific theories;
2. formulate and test hypotheses in either laboratory, simulation, or field experiences;
3. communicate his/her experimental findings and interpretations both orally and in writing;
4. apply the natural science perspective to society issues.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
ANTH 120 Forensic Science: An Anthropological Approach 4 03
ANTH 210 Introduction to Archaeology 4.00 03
ANTH 220 Human Origins 4.00 03
AST 101 Introduction to Astronomy 3.00 03
AST 102 Introduction to the Planets 3.00 03
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 371
AST 115 Life in the Universe 2.00 03
AST 115W Life in the Universe 2.00 03
AST 125 Observational Astronomy 3.00 03
BIOL 100 Our Natural World 4.00 03
BIOL 102 Biology of Women 3.00 03
BIOL 104 Introduction to Soil Science 4.00 03
BIOL 105 General Biology I 4.00 03
BIOL 270 Microbiology 4.00 03
BIOL 271 Principles of Microbiology 4.00 03
CHEM 100 Chemistry in Society 4.00 03
CHEM 104 Introduction to Chemistry 3.00 03
CHEM 106 Chemistry of Life Process Part I (General) 3.00 03
CHEM 111 Chemistry of Life Process Part II (Organic & Biochemistry) 5.00 03
CHEM 131 Forensic Science 3.00 03
CHEM 134 Mind Altering Substances 3.00 03
CHEM 191 Chemistry Applications 3.00 03
CHEM 201 General Chemistry I 5.00 03
EET 112 Elementary Electricity and Electronics 3.00 03
EET 118 Electricity - Generation, Usage & Green Alternatives 3.00 03
FCS 140 Introduction to Nutrition 3.00 03
GEOG 101 Introductory Physical Geography 4.00 03
GEOG 105 Introduction to Geospatial Technologies 3.00 03
GEOL 100 Our Geologic Environment 3-4 03
GEOL 104 Introduction to Soil Science 4.00 03
GEOL 107 Environmental Justice in Geoscience 4.00 03
GEOL 108 Oceans of the World 3.00 03
GEOL 121 Physical Geology 4.00 03
GEOL 122 Earth History 4.00 03
PHYS 101 Introductory Physics 3.00 03
PHYS 105 Time, Atomic Clocks, and Relativity 3.00 03
PHYS 211 Principles of Physics I 4.00 03
PHYS 220 Skills for Introductory Physics 2.00 03
PHYS 221 General Physics I 4.00 03
RPLS 175 Natural Resources and Conservation in RPLS 3.00 03
General Education
Goal Area 4: Mathematical/Logical Reasoning
Narrative
Requires one course, 3 credits or more, with a grade of at least “P” or “C”, i.e., 2.0. A grade of “C-” does not satisfy this goal area.
Goal: To increase students’ knowledge about mathematical and logical modes of thinking. This will enable students to appreciate the breadth of
applications of mathematics, evaluate arguments, and detect fallacious reasoning. Students will learn to apply mathematics, logic, and/or statistics to
help them make decisions in their lives and careers.
Students will be able to:
1. illustrate historical and contemporary applications of mathematical/logical systems;
2. clearly express mathematical/logical ideas in writing;
3. explain what constitutes a valid mathematical/logical argument (proof);
4. apply higher-order problem-solving and/or modeling strategies.
Mathematics and Statistics Placement: Students seeking enrollment in MATH 112 College Algebra, MATH 201 Elements of Mathematics, or
STAT 154 Elementary Statistics must demonstrate readiness to succeed in the course following the standards in the Mathematics and Statistics
Placement policy. 
372 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
CIS 115 Big Ideas of Computer Science 4.00 04
ECON 207 Business Statistics 4.00 04
MATH 110 Perspectives in Mathematics 3.00 04
MATH 112 College Algebra 4.00 04
MATH 113 Trigonometry 3.00 04
MATH 115 Precalculus Mathematics 4.00 04
MATH 121 Calculus I 4.00 04
MATH 130 Finite Mathematics and Introductory
Calculus
4.00 04
MATH 180 Mathematics for Computer Science 4.00 04
MATH 181 Intuitive Calculus 3.00 04
MATH 201 Elements of Mathematics I 3.00 04
PHIL 110 Logic and Critical Thinking 3.00 04
PHIL 112W Scientific Reasoning 3.00 04
POL 221 Quantitative Methods in the Social
Sciences
4.00 04
SOC 202 Introductory Social Statistics 4.00 04
STAT 154 Elementary Statistics 4.00 04
General Education
Goal Area 5: History and The Social and Behavioral Sciences
Narrative
Requires two courses from different disciplines, 6 credits or more
Goal: To increase students’ knowledge of how historians and social and behavioral scientists discover, describe, and explain the behaviors and
interactions among individuals, groups, institutions, events and ideas and to challenge students to examine the implications of this knowledge and its
interconnection with action and living an informed life.
Students will be able to:
1. employ the methods and data that historians and social and behavioral scientists use to investigate the human condition;
2. examine social institutions and processes across a range of historical periods and cultures;
3. use and critique alternative explanatory systems or theories;
4. develop and communicate alternative explanations or solutions for contemporary social issues. 
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
AIS 101 Introduction to American Indigenous Studies 3 05
AIS 130 Introduction to Indigenous Education 3.00 05
AIS 210W Oral Traditions 3.00 05
AIS 211 Native America to 1900 3.00 05
AIS 212 Native America 1900 to Present 3.00 05
AIS 220W Introduction to Tribal Sovereignty 3.00 05
AIS 230W American Indians of Minnesota 3.00 05
AIS 240W American Indian Women 3.00 05
ANTH 101 Introduction to Anthropology 4.00 05
ANTH 102 Ancient Peoples 4.00 05
ANTH 240 Language and Culture 4.00 05
ANTH 250W Portraits of Culture 4.00 05
ANTH 260 Vampires, Werewolves, and Zombies: Folklore of Fear 4 05
ANTH 261 Taboos, Tattoos, and T-Shirts: Culture and Body Art 4 05
ANTH 269 Anthropology of Sex 4.00 05
CJ 101 Introduction to Criminal Justice Systems 3.00 05
CJ 255 Juvenile Delinquency & Justice 3.00 05
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 373
ECON 100 An Introduction to the U.S. Economy 3.00 05
ECON 103W The Economics of Women's Issues and Public Policy in the United States 3.00 05
ECON 201 Principles of Macroeconomics 3.00 05
ECON 202 Principles of Microeconomics 3.00 05
ETHN 100 American Racial Minorities 3.00 05
ETHN 101 Introduction to Multicultural & Ethnic Studies 3.00 05
ETHN 201W Perspectives on African Americans 3 05
ETHN 203W Perspectives on Asian Americans 3.00 05
ETHN 204W Perspectives on Latinos/Hispanics 3.00 05
ETHN 220W Civil Rights in the U.S. 3.00 05
ETHN 440 Asian American Studies 3.00 05
FCS 100 Personal & Family Living 3.00 05
GEOG 102 World Regional Geography 3.00 05
GEOG 103 Introductory Cultural Geography 3.00 05
GWS 110 Introduction to Gender 4.00 05
GWS 110W Introduction to Gender 4.00 05
GWS 222 Gender, Law, & Justice 4.00 05
GWS 225 Queer America 4.00 05
GWS 225W Queer America 4.00 05
GWS 250 Health, Wealth, and Power 4.00 05
HIST 155 History of the Family in America 3.00 05
HIST 170 Ancient World Civilization to 1500 4.00 05
HIST 170W Ancient World Civilization to 1500 4.00 05
HIST 171 World Civilization, 1500-Present 4.00 05
HIST 171W World Civilization, 1500-Present 4.00 05
HIST 180 European History to 1648 4.00 05
HIST 180W European History to 1648 4.00 05
HIST 181 European History: 1648 to the Present 4.00 05
HIST 181W European History: 1648 to the Present 4.00 05
HIST 190 United States to 1877 4.00 05
HIST 190W United States to 1877 4.00 05
HIST 191 United States Since 1877 4.00 05
HIST 191W United States Since 1877 4.00 05
HIST 260 Introduction to Traditional East Asian Civilization 4.00 05
HIST 260W Introduction to Traditional East Asian Civilization 4.00 05
HLTH 225 Introduction to Alcohol and Drug Studies 3.00 05
HLTH 240 Drug Education 3.00 05
KSP 235 Human Development 3.00 05
MRKT 100 Foundations of Business Concepts 3.00 05
MSL 252 The Evolution of American Warfare 3.00 05
MUSE 200W Introduction to Museum Studies 4.00 05
POL 100 Introduction to Politics 4.00 05
POL 104 Understanding the U.S. Constitution 4.00 05
POL 111 United States Government 4.00 05
PSYC 101 Introduction to Psychological Science 4.00 05
PSYC 206 Introduction to Cognitive Science 4.00 05
RPLS 165 Introduction to Community Tourism and Travel 3.00 05
SOC 101 Introduction to Sociology 4.00 05
SOC 150 Social Problems 4.00 05
SOC 208 Families in Society 4.00 05
SOC 209 Sociology of Human Sexualities 4.00 05
374 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
SOC 255 Juvenile Delinquency 4.00 05
SOWK 215 Introduction to Social Welfare Services 4.00 05
SOWK 215W Introduction to Social Welfare Services 4 05
SOWK 255 Global Responses to Human Need 3.00 05
URBS 100 Introduction to the City 3.00 05
URBS 150 Sustainable Communities 3.00 05
General Education
Goal Area 6: Humanities and The Arts
Narrative
Requires two courses from different disciplines, 6 credits or more. 
Goal: To expand students’ knowledge of the human condition and human cultures, especially in relation to behavior, ideas, and values expressed in
works of human imagination and thought. Through study in disciplines such as literature, philosophy, and the fine arts, students will engage in critical
analysis, form aesthetic judgments, and develop an appreciation of the arts and humanities as fundamental to the health and survival of any society.
Students should have experiences in both the arts and humanities.
Students will be able to:
1. demonstrate awareness of the scope and variety of works in the arts and humanities;
2. understand those works as expressions of individual and human values within an historical and social context;
3. respond critically to works in the arts and humanities;
4. engage in the creative process or interpretive performance;
5. articulate an informed personal reaction to works in the arts and humanities.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
ART 100 Elements and Principles of Art 3.00 06
ART 160 Introduction to Visual Culture 3.00 06
ART 225 Developing Creativity: Approaches and Techniques 3 06
ART 231 Mixed Media 3.00 06
ART 260 Art History Survey I 3.00 06
ART 261 Art History Survey II 3.00 06
ART 265W Art As Politics 3.00 06
ART 275 Introduction to Photography 3.00 06
CHIN 101 Elementary Mandarin I 5.00 06
CHIN 102 Elementary Mandarin II 5.00 06
CIS 113 Health Humanities and Health Informatics 4.00 06
COMM 260 Principles of Visual Mass Media 4.00 06
COMM 280 Social Media and Society 4.00 06
CS 201W Artificial Intelligence & Science Fiction 4.00 06
DAK 101 Elementary Dakota I 4.00 06
DAK 102 Elementary Dakota II 4.00 06
DAK 201 Intermediate Dakota I 4.00 06
DAK 202 Intermediate Dakota II 4.00 06
DANC 120 Introduction to Dance 3.00 06
DANC 120W Introduction to Dance 3.00 06
EET 125 Perspective on Technology 3.00 06
ENG 110 Introduction to Literature 4.00 06
ENG 112W Why Literature Matters 4.00 06
ENG 125 International Children's Literature 4.00 06
ENG 146 Introduction to Shakespeare 4.00 06
ENG 211W Literature and Human Diversity 4.00 06
ENG 212W World Literature 4.00 06
ENG 213W Literature and Ethics 4.00 06
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 375
ENG 215 Topics in Literature 2-4 06
FILM 110 Film Appreciation 4.00 06
FILM 114 Introduction to Film 4.00 06
FILM 210W Film Genres 4.00 06
FILM 214 Topics in Film Studies 1-4 06
FILM 216W Writing About Film 4.00 06
FILM 217 Introduction to Film Production 4.00 06
FREN 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 06
GER 150W The German-Speaking Countries: An Interdisciplinary Introduction 4.00 06
GER 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4 06
GWS 230 Gender, Race, and Popular Culture 4.00 06
HUM 101W Introduction to Humanities and the Search for Meaning 4.00 06
HUM 150 Western Humanities I: Cave Paintings to Cathedrals 4.00 06
HUM 151 Western Humanities II: da Vinci to the Digital Age 4.00 06
HUM 155 Global Humanities I: Asia & Africa 4.00 06
HUM 156 Global Humanities II: The Americas, Australia, & Oceania 4.00 06
HUM 250 Perspectives in Humanities 2-4 06
HUM 250W Perspectives in Humanities 4.00 06
HUM 280 Humanities Traditions 2-4 06
HUM 280W Humanities Traditions 4.00 06
HUM 281W Human Diversity and Humanities Traditions 4.00 06
HUM 282W Global Perspectives and Humanities Traditions 4.00 06
MUSC 101 Introduction to Music 3.00 06
MUSC 102 Pop Music USA: Jazz to Country to Blues 3.00 06
MUSC 103 Pop Music USA: R & B to MTV 3.00 06
MUSC 119 Class Piano I 3.00 06
MUSC 120 Music Money and Success 3.00 06
MUSC 209 Music Travel Tour 1-3 06
MUSC 307 Music of the World 3.00 06
MUSP 102 University Chorale 0-1 06
MUSP 103 Chamber Singers 0-1 06
MUSP 108 Contemporary Vocal Ensemble 0-1 06
MUSP 121 Wind Ensemble 0-1 06
MUSP 122 Symphonic Band 0-1 06
MUSP 123 University Orchestra 0-1 06
MUSP 125 Jazz Ensemble 0-1 06
MUSP 126 Contemporary Instrumental Ensemble 0-1 06
MUSP 131 Maverick Machine Athletic Band 0-1 06
MUSP 133 Percussion Ensemble 0-1 06
MUSP 177 Group Instruction in Guitar 3.00 06
MUSP 211 Music Productions for the Stage and Screen 0-1 06
PHIL 100W Introduction to Philosophy 3.00 06
PHIL 101W Philosophical Problem: The Mind-Body Problem 3.00 06
PHIL 115W Philosophy of Race, Class and Gender 3.00 06
PHIL 120W Introduction to Ethics 3.00 06
PHIL 122W Introduction to Asian Philosophy 3.00 06
PHIL 205W Culture, Identity, and Diversity 3.00 06
PHIL 222W Medical Ethics 3.00 06
PHIL 224 Business Ethics 3.00 06
PHIL 224W Business Ethics 3.00 06
PHIL 240W Law, Justice & Society 3.00 06
376 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
SCAN 150W The Nordic Countries: Interdisciplinary Introduction 4.00 06
SCAN 251W Scandinavian Cultures: The Sami 4.00 06
SCAN 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 06
SPAN 101 Elementary Spanish I 4.00 06
SPAN 102 Elementary Spanish II 4.00 06
SPAN 201 Intermediate Spanish I 4.00 06
SPAN 202 Intermediate Spanish II 4.00 06
SPAN 210W Composition and Conversation Workshop 4.00 06
SPAN 250 Spanish Through Latin Dancing 4.00 06
THEA 100 Introduction to Theatre 3.00 06
THEA 101 Acting for Everyone 3.00 06
THEA 285W Theatre of Diversity 3.00 06
URBS 110 The City: Design and Architecture 3.00 06
WLC 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 06
General Education
Goal Area 7: Human Diversity
Narrative
Requires one course, 3 credits or more.
Goal: To increase students’ understanding of individual and group differences, emphasizing the dynamics of race, gender, sexual orientation, age, class,
and/ or disabilities in the history and culture of diverse groups in the United States; the contributions of pluralism to United States society and culture;
and issues-- economic, political, social, cultural, artistic, humanistic, and education traditions- -that surround such diversity. Students should be able
to evaluate the United States’ historical and contemporary responses to group differences.
Students will be able to:
1. understand the development of and the changing meanings of group identities in the United States’ history and cultures;
2. demonstrate an awareness of the individual and institutional dynamics of unequal power relations between groups in contemporary society;
3. analyze and evaluate their own attitudes, behaviors, concepts, and beliefs regarding diversity, racism, and bigotry;
4. describe and discuss the experience and contributions (political, social, economic, artistic, humanistic, etc.) of the many groups that shape American society and culture,
in particular those groups which have suffered discrimination and exclusion;
5. demonstrate communication skills necessary for living and working effectively in a society with great population diversity.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
AIS 101 Introduction to American Indigenous Studies 3 07
AIS 112 Elementary Ojibwe I 4.00 07
AIS 113 Elementary Ojibwe II 4.00 07
AIS 210W Oral Traditions 3.00 07
AIS 211 Native America to 1900 3.00 07
AIS 212 Native America 1900 to Present 3.00 07
AIS 220W Introduction to Tribal Sovereignty 3.00 07
AIS 230W American Indians of Minnesota 3.00 07
AIS 240W American Indian Women 3.00 07
ANTH 245 The Social Life of Swearing 4.00 07
ANTH 269 Anthropology of Sex 4.00 07
ANTH 280 Engaged Anthropology 3.00 07
ART 225 Developing Creativity: Approaches and Techniques 3 07
CDIS 290 Introduction to Communication Disorders 3.00 07
CIS 113 Health Humanities and Health Informatics 4.00 07
COMM 203 Intercultural Communication 4.00 07
COMM 260 Principles of Visual Mass Media 4.00 07
ED 101 Introduction to Critical Race Theory in Education 3.00 07
ELE 222W Human Relations in a Multicultural Society 4.00 07
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 377
ENG 105 Race, Rhetoric, and Representation 4.00 07
ENG 211W Literature and Human Diversity 4.00 07
ETHN 100 American Racial Minorities 3.00 07
ETHN 101 Introduction to Multicultural & Ethnic Studies 3.00 07
ETHN 150 Multi-Cultural/Ethnic Experience 3.00 07
ETHN 200 Interracial/Interethnic Dating/Marriage 3.00 07
ETHN 201W Perspectives on African Americans 3 07
ETHN 203W Perspectives on Asian Americans 3.00 07
ETHN 204W Perspectives on Latinos/Hispanics 3.00 07
GERO 200 Family Dynamics of Aging 3.00 07
GERO 200W Family Dynamics of Aging 3.00 07
GWS 110 Introduction to Gender 4.00 07
GWS 110W Introduction to Gender 4.00 07
GWS 225 Queer America 4.00 07
GWS 225W Queer America 4.00 07
HIST 155 History of the Family in America 3.00 07
HIST 190 United States to 1877 4.00 07
HIST 190W United States to 1877 4.00 07
HIST 191 United States Since 1877 4.00 07
HIST 191W United States Since 1877 4.00 07
HIST 232 Islamic Civilizations 4.00 07
HIST 246W Sports and Games in History 4.00 07
HLTH 211 Human Sexuality in a World of Diversity 3.00 07
HUM 281W Human Diversity and Humanities Traditions 4.00 07
KSP 220W Human Relations in a Multicultural Society 3.00 07
MUSC 102 Pop Music USA: Jazz to Country to Blues 3.00 07
MUSC 103 Pop Music USA: R & B to MTV 3.00 07
PHIL 115W Philosophy of Race, Class and Gender 3.00 07
PSYC 219 Psychology of Diversity and Inclusion 4.00 07
REHB 110W Sensitivity to Disability 3.00 07
SOC 150 Social Problems 4.00 07
SOC 208 Families in Society 4.00 07
SOC 209 Sociology of Human Sexualities 4.00 07
SPED 108 Human Services and Disabilities 3.00 07
THEA 285W Theatre of Diversity 3.00 07
General Education
Goal Area 8: Global Perspectives
Narrative
Requires one course, 3 credits or more.
Goal: To increase students’ understanding of the growing interdependence of nations, traditions and peoples and develop their ability to apply a
comparative perspective to cross-cultural social, economic, and political experiences.
Students will be able to:
1. describe, analyze, and evaluate political, economic, humanistic, artistic, social and cultural elements which influence relations of nations and peoples in their historical and
contemporary dimensions;
2. demonstrate knowledge of cultural, social, religious and linguistic differences;
3. analyze specific international problems illustrating cultural, economic, artistic, humanistic, social, and political differences which affect their solution;
4. understand the role of a world citizen and the responsibility world citizens share for their common global future.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
AIS 112 Elementary Ojibwe I 4.00 08
378 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
AIS 113 Elementary Ojibwe II 4.00 08
ANTH 101 Introduction to Anthropology 4.00 08
ANTH 230 Peoples and Cultures of the World 4.00 08
ANTH 240 Language and Culture 4.00 08
ANTH 260 Vampires, Werewolves, and Zombies: Folklore of Fear 4 08
ANTH 261 Taboos, Tattoos, and T-Shirts: Culture and Body Art 4 08
ART 160 Introduction to Visual Culture 3.00 08
ART 260 Art History Survey I 3.00 08
ART 261 Art History Survey II 3.00 08
ART 265W Art As Politics 3.00 08
BIOL 100 Our Natural World 4.00 08
CHIN 101 Elementary Mandarin I 5.00 08
CHIN 102 Elementary Mandarin II 5.00 08
CJ 225 History of Prisons and Punishment 3.00 08
COMM 203 Intercultural Communication 4.00 08
COMM 217 Experiential Storytelling 4.00 08
DAK 101 Elementary Dakota I 4.00 08
DAK 102 Elementary Dakota II 4.00 08
DAK 201 Intermediate Dakota I 4.00 08
DAK 202 Intermediate Dakota II 4.00 08
DANC 120 Introduction to Dance 3.00 08
DANC 120W Introduction to Dance 3.00 08
DANC 225 Worlds of Dance 3.00 08
EET 118 Electricity - Generation, Usage & Green Alternatives 3.00 08
EET 125 Perspective on Technology 3.00 08
ENG 125 International Children's Literature 4.00 08
ENG 146 Introduction to Shakespeare 4.00 08
ENG 212W World Literature 4.00 08
ENVR 101 Perspectives in Environmental Science 4.00 08
FREN 101 Elementary French I 5.00 08
FREN 102 Elementary French II 5.00 08
FREN 201 Intermediate French I 4.00 08
FREN 202 Intermediate French II 4.00 08
FREN 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 08
GEOG 100 Elements of Geography 3.00 08
GEOG 102 World Regional Geography 3.00 08
GEOG 103 Introductory Cultural Geography 3.00 08
GER 101 Elementary German I 4.00 08
GER 102 Elementary German II 4.00 08
GER 150W The German-Speaking Countries: An Interdisciplinary Introduction 4.00 08
GER 201 Intermediate German I 4.00 08
GER 202 Intermediate German II 4.00 08
GER 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4 08
GWS 220 Sex and Gender Worldwide 4.00 08
GWS 220W Sex and Gender Worldwide 4.00 08
HIST 170 Ancient World Civilization to 1500 4.00 08
HIST 170W Ancient World Civilization to 1500 4.00 08
HIST 171 World Civilization, 1500-Present 4.00 08
HIST 171W World Civilization, 1500-Present 4.00 08
HIST 232 Islamic Civilizations 4.00 08
HIST 235 World War II and the Holocaust 4.00 08
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 379
HUM 101W Introduction to Humanities and the Search for Meaning 4.00 08
HUM 155 Global Humanities I: Asia & Africa 4.00 08
HUM 156 Global Humanities II: The Americas, Australia, & Oceania 4.00 08
HUM 282W Global Perspectives and Humanities Traditions 4.00 08
MUSC 307 Music of the World 3.00 08
MUSE 200W Introduction to Museum Studies 4.00 08
PHIL 122W Introduction to Asian Philosophy 3.00 08
PHIL 205W Culture, Identity, and Diversity 3.00 08
POL 106 Politics in the World Community 4.00 08
POL 234 Model United Nations 4.00 08
SCAN 101 Elementary Norwegian I 4.00 08
SCAN 102 Elementary Norwegian II 4.00 08
SCAN 111 Elementary Swedish I 4.00 08
SCAN 112 Elementary Swedish II 4.00 08
SCAN 150W The Nordic Countries: Interdisciplinary Introduction 4.00 08
SCAN 251W Scandinavian Cultures: The Sami 4.00 08
SCAN 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 08
SOC 101 Introduction to Sociology 4.00 08
SOWK 255 Global Responses to Human Need 3.00 08
SPAN 101 Elementary Spanish I 4.00 08
SPAN 102 Elementary Spanish II 4.00 08
SPAN 201 Intermediate Spanish I 4.00 08
SPAN 202 Intermediate Spanish II 4.00 08
SPAN 210W Composition and Conversation Workshop 4.00 08
URBS 100 Introduction to the City 3.00 08
WLC 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 08
General Education
Goal Area 9: Ethical and Civic Responsibility
Narrative
Requires one course, 3 credits or more.
Goal: To develop students’ capacity to identify, dis cuss and reflect upon the ethical dimensions of political, social, and personal life and to understand
the ways in which they can exercise responsible and productive citizenship. While there are diverse views of social justice or the common good in a
pluralistic society, students should learn that responsible citizenship requires them to develop skills to understand their own and others positions, be
part of the free exchange of ideas, and function as public minded citizens.
Students will be able to:
1. examine, articulate, and apply their own ethical views;
2. understand and apply core concepts (e.g., politics, rights and obligations, justice, liberty) to specific issues;
3. analyze and reflect on the ethical dimensions of legal, social, and scientific issues;
4. recognize the diversity of political motivations and interests of others;
5. identify ways to exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. 
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
AIS 130 Introduction to Indigenous Education 3.00 09
ANTH 245 The Social Life of Swearing 4.00 09
CHEM 131 Forensic Science 3.00 09
CIS 100 Introduction to Computing and Applications 4 09
CIS 202W Computers in Society 4.00 09
CJ 101 Introduction to Criminal Justice Systems 3.00 09
CJ 255 Juvenile Delinquency & Justice 3.00 09
COMM 110 Media and Society 4.00 09
380 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
COMM 242 Preparing for Advocacy 4.00 09
COMM 280 Social Media and Society 4.00 09
CS 201W Artificial Intelligence & Science Fiction 4.00 09
ED 101 Introduction to Critical Race Theory in Education 3.00 09
ENG 213W Literature and Ethics 4.00 09
ENG 214 Environmental Humanities 4.00 09
GWS 120 Violence and Gender 4.00 09
GWS 120W Violence and Gender 4.00 09
GWS 220 Sex and Gender Worldwide 4.00 09
GWS 220W Sex and Gender Worldwide 4.00 09
GWS 222 Gender, Law, & Justice 4.00 09
GWS 250 Health, Wealth, and Power 4.00 09
HIST 181 European History: 1648 to the Present 4.00 09
HIST 181W European History: 1648 to the Present 4.00 09
HIST 235 World War II and the Holocaust 4.00 09
HIST 244 A History of Taboos and Transgressions 4.00 09
HIST 250 Riot and Revolution in History 4.00 09
HIST 268 History and American Democracy 4.00 09
HIST 280 History in Black and White 4.00 09
KSP 200 Critical Issues in Public Education 3.00 09
NPL 273 Introduction to the Nonprofit Sector 3.00 09
PHIL 120W Introduction to Ethics 3.00 09
PHIL 222W Medical Ethics 3.00 09
PHIL 224 Business Ethics 3.00 09
PHIL 224W Business Ethics 3.00 09
PHIL 226W Environmental Ethics 3.00 09
PHIL 240W Law, Justice & Society 3.00 09
POL 101 Introduction to Public Life 4.00 09
POL 111 United States Government 4.00 09
RPLS 100 Introduction to Recreation and Parks Leadership Studies 3.00 09
SOC 214W Animals and Society 4.00 09
SOC 241 Social Deviance 4.00 09
SOC 255 Juvenile Delinquency 4.00 09
SOWK 215 Introduction to Social Welfare Services 4.00 09
SOWK 215W Introduction to Social Welfare Services 4 09
SPED 108 Human Services and Disabilities 3.00 09
URBS 230 Community Leadership 3.00 09
URBS 230W Community Leadership 3.00 09
General Education
Goal Area 10: People and The Environment
Narrative
Requires one course, 3 credits or more.
Goal: To increase students’ understanding of today’s complex environmental challenges. Students will examine the interrelatedness of human society
and the natural environment. Knowledge of both bio-physical principles and psychosocial cultural systems is the foundation for integrative and critical
thinking about environmental issues.
Students will be able to:
1. explain the basic structure and function of various natural ecosystems and of human adaptive strategies within those systems;
2. discern and analyze patterns and interrelationships of the bio-physical and psycho-social cultural systems;
3. critically discern and analyze individual, social, and ecological dimensions of health;
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 381
4. describe the basic institutional arrangements (social, legal, political, economic, health, ethical, religious) that are evolving to deal with environmental and natural resource
challenges;
5. evaluate critically environmental and natural re source issues in light of understandings about interrelation ships, ecosystems, and institutions;
6. propose and assess alternative solutions to environmental problems;
7. articulate and defend the actions they would take on various environmental issues.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
ANTH 102 Ancient Peoples 4.00 10
ANTH 210 Introduction to Archaeology 4.00 10
BIOL 104 Introduction to Soil Science 4.00 10
ENG 214 Environmental Humanities 4.00 10
ENVR 101 Perspectives in Environmental Science 4.00 10
FCS 280 Food Systems and Policy 3.00 10
GEOG 100 Elements of Geography 3.00 10
GEOG 101 Introductory Physical Geography 4.00 10
GEOG 105 Introduction to Geospatial Technologies 3.00 10
GEOG 210W Landscapes and Places 3.00 10
GEOL 100 Our Geologic Environment 3-4 10
GEOL 104 Introduction to Soil Science 4.00 10
GEOL 107 Environmental Justice in Geoscience 4.00 10
GEOL 108 Oceans of the World 3.00 10
GEOL 121 Physical Geology 4.00 10
HIST 180 European History to 1648 4.00 10
HIST 180W European History to 1648 4.00 10
HIST 260 Introduction to Traditional East Asian Civilization 4.00 10
HIST 260W Introduction to Traditional East Asian Civilization 4.00 10
HLTH 101 Health and the Environment 3.00 10
PHIL 226W Environmental Ethics 3.00 10
RPLS 182 Wildlife as a Recreational Resource 3.00 10
URBS 150 Sustainable Communities 3.00 10
General Education
Goal Area 11: Performance and Participation
Narrative
Requires 2-3 credits. 
Goal: To prepare students for responsible and effective participation in groups and communities.
1. Students will be able to:
2. participate effectively in a variety of artistic, education, political, recreational, health and public service, or social service settings;
3. interact with others of another culture in its indigenous setting through a structured experience;
4. participate cooperatively in group athletic activity or artistic performance.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
ANTH 280 Engaged Anthropology 3.00 11
CDIS 205 Beginning American Sign Language - Level I 3.00 11
COMM 220 Speech and Debate 0-4 11
CSP 110 Decision Making for Career and Life 3.00 11
CW 242W Introduction To Creative Writing 4.00 11
DANC 123 Jazz Dance I 2.00 11
DANC 125 Afro-Caribbean Dance Forms 2.00 11
DANC 126 Ballet I 2.00 11
DANC 127 Tap Dance I 2.00 11
382 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
DANC 128 Contemporary Dance I 2.00 11
DANC 223 Jazz Dance II 2.00 11
DANC 225 Worlds of Dance 3.00 11
DANC 226 Ballet II 2.00 11
DANC 227 Tap Dance II 2.00 11
DANC 228 Contemporary Dance II 2.00 11
EXED 202 Introduction to Experiential Education 3.00 11
FILM 217 Introduction to Film Production 4.00 11
HIST 280 History in Black and White 4.00 11
HLTH 209 Basic First Aid & CPR 1.00 11
HLTH 210 Emergency Medical Responder First Aid & CPR 3.00 11
HP 102 Individualized Exercise 1.00 11
HP 103 Fitness for Living 1.00 11
HP 105 Beginner Swimming 1.00 11
HP 106 Disc Golf 1.00 11
HP 113 Introduction to Bowling 1.00 11
HP 114 Introduction to Billiards 1.00 11
HP 117 Aerobic Conditioning 1.00 11
HP 130 Self-Defense for Women 1.00 11
HP 146 Intercollegiate Bowling 1.00 11
HP 147 Intercollegiate Cross Country 1.00 11
HP 148 Intercollegiate Softball 1.00 11
HP 149 Intercollegiate Volleyball 1.00 11
HP 150 Intercollegiate Wrestling 1.00 11
HP 152 Intercollegiate Track and Field 1.00 11
HP 153 Intercollegiate Swimming 1.00 11
HP 154 Intercollegiate Football 1.00 11
HP 155 Intercollegiate Basketball 1.00 11
HP 156 Intercollegiate Baseball 1.00 11
HP 157 Intercollegiate Golf 1.00 11
HP 158 Intercollegiate Tennis 1.00 11
HP 159 Intercollegiate Hockey 1.00 11
HP 161 Intercollegiate Soccer 1.00 11
HP 166 Team Game Skills 1.00 11
HP 171 Introduction to Racquetball 1.00 11
HP 172 Introduction to Tennis 1.00 11
HP 173 Introduction to Badminton 1.00 11
HP 175 Fitness Activities 1.00 11
HP 176 Introduction to Pickleball 1.00 11
HP 177 Introduction to Golf 1.00 11
HP 179 Downhill Skiing 1.00 11
HP 180 Introduction to Handball 1.00 11
HP 181 Advanced Handball 1.00 11
HP 182 Aquatic Skills 1.00 11
HP 183 Introduction to Curling 1.00 11
HP 190 Sport Activities 1.00 11
HP 191 Yoga 1.00 11
HP 192 Indoor Cycling 1.00 11
HP 245 Intermediate Swimming 1.00 11
HP 252 Officiating Theory 2.00 11
HP 257 Water Safety Instructor (WSI) 2.00 11
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 383
HP 291 Concepts of Fitness 2.00 11
KSP 220W Human Relations in a Multicultural Society 3.00 11
MSL 210 Army Physical Fitness 1.00 11
MUSP 101 Concert Choir 0-1 11
MUSP 102 University Chorale 0-1 11
MUSP 103 Chamber Singers 0-1 11
MUSP 108 Contemporary Vocal Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 111 Music Productions for the Stage and Screen 0,1 11
MUSP 114 Vocal Ensemble 1.00 11
MUSP 121 Wind Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 122 Symphonic Band 0-1 11
MUSP 123 University Orchestra 0-1 11
MUSP 125 Jazz Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 126 Contemporary Instrumental Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 131 Maverick Machine Athletic Band 0-1 11
MUSP 133 Percussion Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 135 Theatre Orchestra 0-1 11
MUSP 139 Instrumental Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 177 Group Instruction in Guitar 3.00 11
MUSP 201 Concert Choir 0-1 11
MUSP 202 University Chorale 0-1 11
MUSP 203 Chamber Singers 0-1 11
MUSP 208 Contemporary Vocal Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 211 Music Productions for the Stage and Screen 0-1 11
MUSP 214 Vocal Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 221 Wind Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 222 Symphonic Band 0-1 11
MUSP 223 University Orchestra 0-1 11
MUSP 225 Jazz Mavericks 0-1 11
MUSP 226 Contemporary Instrumental Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 233 Percussion Ensemble 0-1 11
MUSP 235 Theatre Orchestra 0-1 11
MUSP 239 Instrumental Ensemble 0-1 11
NURS 286 Relationship-Based Care 3.00 11
POL 101 Introduction to Public Life 4.00 11
RPLS 150 Esports Skills Development 1.00 11
RPLS 293 Leisure, Recreation, Play, and Well-Being 3.00 11
SPAN 250 Spanish Through Latin Dancing 4.00 11
THEA 101 Acting for Everyone 3.00 11
THEA 102 Theatre Activity: Acting 1-2 11
THEA 103 Theatre Activity: Management 1-2 11
THEA 105 Theatre Activity: Stagecraft 1-2 11
THEA 107 Theatre Activity: Costume 1-2 11
THEA 108 Theatre Activity: Lighting 1-2 11
THEA 109 Theatre Activity: Sound 1-2 11
THEA 121 Movement for Theatre 3.00 11
URBS 230 Community Leadership 3.00 11
URBS 230W Community Leadership 3.00 11
General Education
384 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
Goal Area 12: First Year Experience
Narrative
Requires 0-1 credits. 
Goal: To promote further development of student success skills, such as reading, writing and speaking; help students gain intellectual confidence;
build in the expectation of academic success; and to provide assistance in making the transition to the University.
Students will be able to:
1. experience higher personal expectations of his/her ability to meaning fully participate in academic life;
2. define and give examples of critical thinking;
3. interact with other students regarding academic matters;
4. affirm that careful thinking is an important aspect of the educational process;
5. make a comfortable transition to college life.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
CIVE 100 Explorations in Engineering 1.00 12
EE 100 Explorations in Engineering 1.00 12
FYEX 100 First Year Seminar 1.00 12
ME 100 Explorations in Engineering 1.00 12
General Education
Goal Area 13: Information Technology
Narrative
Requires 0-2 credits
Goals: To familiarize students with the tools, concepts and societal impact of information technology and to develop the skills necessary to use this
technology critically and effectively.
Students will be able to:
1. use electronic information technology ethically and responsibly;
2. access and retrieve information through electronic media, evaluating the accuracy and authenticity of that information;
3. create, manage, organize and communicate information through electronic media;
4. demonstrate a working knowledge of information technology terms and concepts;
5. understand how computers function and the limits of computation and information technology;
6. recognize changing technologies and make informed choices in their use.
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
EET 115 Understanding Computers 3.00 13
EET 116 Communications-Past, Present & Future 3.00 13
ENG 271W Technical Communication 4.00 13
ENG 272W Business Communication 4.00 13
General Education
Writing Intensive
Subject Abbreviation Course Number Title Credits General Education Code
AE 488W Senior Design Project I 3.00 W
AE 489W Senior Design Project II 3.00 W
AET 488W Senior Design Project I 3.00 W
AET 489W Senior Design Project II 3.00 W
AIS 210W Oral Traditions 3.00 W
AIS 220W Introduction to Tribal Sovereignty 3.00 W
AIS 230W American Indians of Minnesota 3.00 W
AIS 240W American Indian Women 3.00 W
AIS 300W American Indian Leaders 3.00 W
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 385
ANTH 250W Portraits of Culture 4.00 W
ANTH 421W Health, Culture, and Disease 4 W
ANTH 425W Anthropology of Death 4 W
ANTH 436W Anthropology of Aging 4 W
ANTH 438W Anthropological Theory 4.00 W
ANTH 443W People and Cultures of East Asia 4 W
AOS 380W Applied Leadership Workshop 2 3.00 W
ART 265W Art As Politics 3.00 W
ART 477W Roots of Modern Islamic Art 3.00 W
AST 115W Life in the Universe 2.00 W
BIOL 443W Plant Ecology 4.00 W
CAHN 101W The Health Care Professions 3.00 W
CDIS 350W Interprofessional Practice and Research 3.00 W
CDIS 409W Literacy Foundations and Disorders for Speech-Language Pathologists 3.00 W
CDIS 457W Transdisciplinary Research in Health-Related Fields 3.00 W
CHEM 481W Inquiry and Writing in Biochemistry and Chemistry 3.00 W
CIS 202W Computers in Society 4.00 W
CIVE 370W Transportation Engineering 4.00 W
CIVE 401W Civil Engineering Design I 2.00 W
CIVE 402W Civil Engineering Design II 3.00 W
CIVE 478W Transportation Asset Management 3.00 W
CJ 332W Peace Officer Communication Techniques 3.00 W
CJ 421W Community Corrections 3.00 W
CJ 430W Peace Officer Technical Writing 3.00 W
COMM 105W Interpersonal Communication 4.00 W
COMM 221W Media Writing Fundamentals 4.00 W
COMM 325W Reporting and Editing 4.00 W
COMM 330W Multimedia Storytelling 4.00 W
COMM 434W Public Relations Writing 4.00 W
COMM 436W Specialized Writing 4.00 W
CS 201W Artificial Intelligence & Science Fiction 4.00 W
CS 391W Computer Science Project 1 4.00 W
CS 392W Computer Science Project 2 4.00 W
CS 490W Cognitive Science Senior Capstone 4.00 W
CS 491W Computer Science Capstone 1 4.00 W
CS 492W Computer Science Capstone 2 4.00 W
CS 498W Senior Thesis 4.00 W
CW 242W Introduction To Creative Writing 4.00 W
CW 447W Advanced Creative Writing 4.00 W
DANC 120W Introduction to Dance 3.00 W
DANC 484W Dance History 3.00 W
DHYG 425W Community Dental Health 3.00 W
DHYG 444W Principles of Oral Health Promotion 3.00 W
DHYG 453W Research Methods in Dental Hygiene 3.00 W
ECON 103W The Economics of Women's Issues and Public Policy in the United States 3.00 W
ECON 314W Current Economic Issues 3.00 W
ECON 320W Gender Issues and Economic Globalization 3.00 W
ECON 462W Econometrics 4.00 W
EE 467W Principles of Engineering Design III 1-2 W
EE 477W Principles of Engineering Design IV 1-2 W
ELE 222W Human Relations in a Multicultural Society 4.00 W
386 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
ELE 430W Integrating Arts & Physical Health Across the Elementary Curriculum 4.00 W
ENG 112W Why Literature Matters 4.00 W
ENG 201W Writing Technologies 4.00 W
ENG 211W Literature and Human Diversity 4.00 W
ENG 212W World Literature 4.00 W
ENG 213W Literature and Ethics 4.00 W
ENG 271W Technical Communication 4.00 W
ENG 272W Business Communication 4.00 W
ENG 273W Agricultural Communication 4.00 W
ENG 275W Introduction to Literary Studies 4.00 W
ENG 301W Advanced Writing 4.00 W
ENG 402W Gender in Literature 4.00 W
ENG 403W Selected Authors 4.00 W
ENG 412W Arab American Literature 4.00 W
ENG 433W Selected Studies in World Literature 4.00 W
ENG 436W Native American Literature 4.00 W
ENG 437W Latina/o Literature 2-4 W
ENG 438W African American Literature 4.00 W
ENG 474W Research and Writing Technical Reports 4.00 W
ENG 477W Technical Documentation, Policies, and Procedures 4.00 W
ENGR 311W Professionalism I 3.00 W
ENGR 312W Professionalism II 3.00 W
ENGR 411W Professionalism III 3.00 W
ENGR 412W Professionalism IV 3.00 W
ETHN 201W Perspectives on African Americans 3 W
ETHN 203W Perspectives on Asian Americans 3.00 W
ETHN 204W Perspectives on Latinos/Hispanics 3.00 W
ETHN 220W Civil Rights in the U.S. 3.00 W
ETHN 402W Ethnic Research Methods/Skills 3.00 W
FCS 414W Family Policy and Ethics 3.00 W
FCS 480W Applied Food Science 3.00 W
FILM 210W Film Genres 4.00 W
FILM 216W Writing About Film 4.00 W
FILM 334W International Cinema 4.00 W
FREN 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 W
FREN 302W Composition 2-4 W
GEOG 210W Landscapes and Places 3.00 W
GEOG 416W Fluvial Geomorphology and Hydrology 4.00 W
GEOL 320W Sedimentology and Stratigraphy 4.00 W
GER 150W The German-Speaking Countries: An Interdisciplinary Introduction 4.00 W
GER 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4 W
GERO 200W Family Dynamics of Aging 3.00 W
GWS 110W Introduction to Gender 4.00 W
GWS 120W Violence and Gender 4.00 W
GWS 220W Sex and Gender Worldwide 4.00 W
GWS 225W Queer America 4.00 W
HIST 170W Ancient World Civilization to 1500 4.00 W
HIST 171W World Civilization, 1500-Present 4.00 W
HIST 180W European History to 1648 4.00 W
HIST 181W European History: 1648 to the Present 4.00 W
HIST 190W United States to 1877 4.00 W
www.mnsu.edu 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog 387
HIST 191W United States Since 1877 4.00 W
HIST 246W Sports and Games in History 4.00 W
HIST 260W Introduction to Traditional East Asian Civilization 4.00 W
HIST 481W Civil Rights in the Twentieth Century 4.00 W
HIST 495W Senior Seminar 4.00 W
HLTH 361W Health Communication and Advocacy 4.00 W
HLTH 380W Health Education Planning, Implementing, and Evaluating 1 3.00 W
HLTH 408W Theories and Methods for Addictions Professionals 3.00 W
HLTH 410W Current Health Issues 3.00 W
HLTH 420W Health Teaching Methods 3.00 W
HLTH 457W Transdisciplinary Research in Health-Related Fields 3.00 W
HLTH 482W Administration and Grant Writing in Health Education 4.00 W
HP 315W Research Methods and Statistics in Exercise Science 3 W
HUM 101W Introduction to Humanities and the Search for Meaning 4.00 W
HUM 250W Perspectives in Humanities 4.00 W
HUM 280W Humanities Traditions 4.00 W
HUM 281W Human Diversity and Humanities Traditions 4.00 W
HUM 282W Global Perspectives and Humanities Traditions 4.00 W
HUM 450W Humanities Seminar 4.00 W
KSP 220W Human Relations in a Multicultural Society 3.00 W
MATH 492W Mathematics Capstone Experience 3.00 W
ME 436W Mechanical Engineering Experimentation II 2.00 W
ME 438W Design Project II 3.00 W
ME 466W Mechanical Engineering Experimentation III 2.00 W
MET 488W Senior Design Project I 2.00 W
MET 489W Senior Design Project II 2.00 W
MFE 488W Senior Design I 2.00 W
MFE 489W Senior Design II 2.00 W
MUSC 301W Music History 1 3.00 W
MUSC 302W Music History 2 3.00 W
MUSC 309W Music Travel Tour 3.00 W
MUSC 320W Musicpreneurship 3.00 W
MUSE 200W Introduction to Museum Studies 4.00 W
NURS 320W Critical Inquiry and Evidence-based Practice for RNs 4.00 W
NURS 350W Critical Inquiry in Nursing 3.00 W
NURS 482W Population-Based Public Health Practice for RNs 6.00 W
PHIL 100W Introduction to Philosophy 3.00 W
PHIL 101W Philosophical Problem: The Mind-Body Problem 3.00 W
PHIL 112W Scientific Reasoning 3.00 W
PHIL 115W Philosophy of Race, Class and Gender 3.00 W
PHIL 120W Introduction to Ethics 3.00 W
PHIL 122W Introduction to Asian Philosophy 3.00 W
PHIL 205W Culture, Identity, and Diversity 3.00 W
PHIL 222W Medical Ethics 3.00 W
PHIL 224W Business Ethics 3.00 W
PHIL 226W Environmental Ethics 3.00 W
PHIL 240W Law, Justice & Society 3.00 W
PHIL 321W Social & Political Philosophy 3.00 W
PHIL 322W Ethical Theory 3.00 W
PHIL 323W Philosophy of Economics 3.00 W
PHIL 334W History of Philosophy: Classical Philosophy 3.00 W
388 2024-2025 Undergraduate Catalog www.mnsu.edu
PHIL 336W History of Philosophy: Renaissance and Modern Philosophy 3.00 W
PHIL 358W Topics in Asian Philosophy 3.00 W
PHYS 475W Advanced Laboratory 3.00 W
POL 103W Thinking About Politics 4.00 W
PSYC 103W Psychology Today 3.00 W
PSYC 211W Research Methods and Design 4.00 W
PSYC 460W Psychology of Women 3.00 W
REHB 110W Sensitivity to Disability 3.00 W
RPLS 341W Research Methods in RPLS 3.00 W
RPLS 377W Public Relations 3.00 W
RPLS 393W Advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in RPLS 3.00 W
RPLS 447W Therapeutic Recreation Process 3.00 W
RPLS 457W Transdisciplinary Research in Health-Related Fields 3.00 W
RPLS 471W Research Design in Recreation, Parks and Leisure Services 3.00 W
SCAN 150W The Nordic Countries: Interdisciplinary Introduction 4.00 W
SCAN 251W Scandinavian Cultures: The Sami 4.00 W
SCAN 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 W
SE 311W SE Professionalism 1 2.00 W
SE 312W SE Professionalism 1 2.00 W
SE 411W SE Professionalism 3 2.00 W
SE 412W SE Professionalism 4 2.00 W
SE 498W Senior Thesis 4.00 W
SOC 214W Animals and Society 4.00 W
SOC 285W Selected Topics in Sociology 4.00 W
SOC 301W Social Research I 4.00 W
SOWK 215W Introduction to Social Welfare Services 4 W
SOWK 310W Human Behavior in the Social Environment 4 W
SPAN 210W Composition and Conversation Workshop 4.00 W
SPAN 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 W
SPAN 311W Composition Workshop for Heritage/Bilingual Speakers 4.00 W
SPAN 403W Topics in Spanish American Literature 1-4 W
SPED 448W Behavior Management and Learning Environments for Diverse Learners 4.00 W
THEA 285W Theatre of Diversity 3.00 W
THEA 381W Play Analysis 3.00 W
THEA 417W Acting Techniques 3.00 W
THEA 485W Theatre Dramaturgy 3.00 W
THEA 487W Playwriting 3.00 W
URBS 230W Community Leadership 3.00 W
WLC 280W Parallel Worlds: Exploring Cultures & Symbols 4.00 W
